   One day a wolf and a lamb happened to come at the same time to drinkfrom a brook that ran down the side of the mountain.
The Wolf wished very much to eat the Lamb, but meeting her as he did,face to face, he thought he must find some excuse for doing so.
So he began by trying to pick a quarrel, and said angrily: “How dareyou come to my brook and muddy the water so that I cannot drink it?What do you mean?”
The Lamb, very much alarmed, said gently: “I do not see how it can bethat I have spoiled the water. You stand higher up the stream, and thewater runs from you to me, not from me to you.”
“Be that as it may,” said the Wolf, with a snarl, “you are a rascal allthe same, for I have heard that last year you said bad things of mebehind my back.”
“Dear Mr. Wolf,” cried the poor Lamb, “that could not be, for a yearago I was not born; I am only six months old.”
Finding it of no use to argue any more, the Wolf began to snarl andshow his teeth. Coming closer to the Lamb, he said, “You little wretch,if it was not you it was your father, so it’s all the same”; and hepounced upon the poor Lamb and ate her up.
<s>
      A little fox was out playing one day, when a lion came roaring along.“Dear me,” said the Fox, as he hid behind a tree, “I never saw a Lionbefore. What a terrible creature! His voice makes me tremble.”
The next time the Fox met the Lion he was not so much afraid, but hekept a safe distance and said to himself, “I wish he would not makesuch a noise!”
The third time they met, the Fox was not frightened at all. He ran upto the Lion, and said, “What are you roaring about?”
And the Lion was so taken by surprise that, without saying a word, helet the Fox walk away.
It would not be safe for little foxes always to follow the example ofthis one; but it is often true that what our fear makes seem a lion inthe way has no danger in it if we meet it bravely.
<s>
      A dog once had a nice piece of meat for his dinner. some say that itwas stolen, but others, that it had been given him by a butcher, whichwe hope was the case.
Dogs like best to eat at home, and he went trotting along with the meatin his mouth, as happy as a king.
On the dog’s way there was a stream with a plank across it. As thewater was still and clear, he stopped to take a look at it. Whatshould he see, as he gazed into its bright depths, but a dog as big ashimself, looking up at him, and lo! the dog had meat in his mouth.
“I’ll try to get that,” said he; “then with both mine and his what afeast I shall have!” As quick as thought he snapped at the meat, but indoing so he had to open his mouth, and his own piece fell to the bottomof the stream.
Then he saw that the other dog had lost his piece, too. He went sadlyhome. In trying to grasp a shadow he lost his substance.
<s>
      “my child,” said a crab to her son, “why do you walk so awkwardly? ifyou wish to make a good appearance, you should go straight forward, andnot to one side as you do so constantly.”
“I do wish to make a good appearance, mamma,” said the young Crab; “andif you will show me how, I will try to walk straight forward.”
“Why, this is the way, of course,” said the mother, as she started offto the right. “No, this is the way,” said she, as she made anotherattempt, to the left.
The little Crab smiled. “When you learn to do it yourself, you canteach me,” he said, and went back to his play.
<s>
      It was a sultry day, and a fox was almost famishing with hunger andthirst. He was just saying to himself that anything would be acceptableto him, when, looking up, he spied some great clusters of ripe, blackgrapes hanging from a trellised vine.
“What luck!” he said; “if only they weren’t quite so high, I shouldbe sure of a fine feast. I wonder if I can get them. I can think ofnothing that would so refresh me.”
Jumping into the air is not the easiest thing in the world for a Fox todo; but he gave a great spring and nearly reached the lowest clusters.
“I’ll do better next time,” he said.
He tried again and again, but did not succeed so well as at first.Finding that he was losing his strength and that he had little chanceof getting the grapes, he walked slowly off, grumbling as he did so:“The grapes are sour, and not at all fit for my eating. I’ll leave themto the greedy birds. They eat anything.”
<s>
      One day a wolf, who was eating his dinner much too fast, swallowed abone, which stuck in his throat and pained him very much. He tried toget it out, but could not.
Just then he saw a Crane passing by. “Dear friend,” said he to theCrane, “there is a bone sticking in my throat. You have a good longneck; can’t you reach down and pull it out? I will pay you well for it.”
“I’ll try,” said the Crane. Then he put his head into the Wolf’s mouth,between his sharp teeth, and reaching down, pulled out the bone.
“There!” said the Wolf, “I am glad it is out; I must be more carefulanother time.”
“I will go now, if you will pay me,” said the Crane.
“Pay you, indeed!” cried the Wolf. “Be thankful that I did not biteyour head off when it was in my mouth. You ought to be content withthat.” 
Gentle, kindly folk sometimes have to learn that kindness must be mixedwith caution.
<s>
      The ants and the grasshoppers lived together in the great field. theAnts were busy all the time gathering a store of grain to lay by forwinter use. They gave themselves so little pleasure that their merryneighbors, the Grasshoppers, began at last to take scarcely any noticeof them.
When the frost came, it put an end to the work of the Ants and thechirping and merrymaking of the Grasshoppers. But one fine winter’sday, when the Ants were employed in spreading their grain in the sun todry, a Grasshopper, who was nearly perishing with hunger, chanced topass by.
“Good day to you, kind neighbor,” said she; “will you not lend me alittle food? I will certainly pay you before this time next year.”
“How does it happen that you have no food of your own?” asked an oldAnt. “There was an abundance in the field where we lived side by sideall summer, and your people seemed to be active enough. What were youdoing, pray?”
“Oh,” said the Grasshopper, forgetting his hunger, “I sang all the daylong, and all the night, too.”
“Well, then,” interrupted the Ant, “I must not deprive my own familyfor you. If Grasshoppers find it so gay to sing away the summer, theymust starve in winter,” and she went on with her work, all the whilesinging the old song, “We ants never borrow; we ants never lend.”
<s>
      There were once some frogs who lived together in perfect security in abeautiful lake. They were a large company, and were very comfortable,but they came to think that they might be still happier if they had aKing to rule over them.
So they sent to Jupiter, their god, to ask him to give them a King.
Jupiter laughed at their folly, for he knew that they were better offas they were; but he said to them, “Well, here is a King for you,” andinto the water he threw a big Log.
It fell with such a splash that the Frogs were terrified and hidthemselves in the deep mud under the water.
By and by, one braver than the rest peeped out to look at the King, andsaw the Log, as it lay quietly on the top of the water. Soon, one afteranother they all came out of their hiding places and ventured to lookat their great King.
As the Log did not move, they swam round it, keeping a safe distanceaway, and at last one by one hopped upon it.
“This is not a King,” said a wise old Frog; “it is nothing but a stupidLog. If we had a King, Jupiter would pay more attention to us.”
Again they sent to Jupiter, and begged him to give them a King whocould rule over them.
Jupiter did not like to be disturbed again by the silly Frogs, and thistime he sent them a Stork, saying, “You will have some one to ruleover you now.”
As they saw the Stork solemnly walking down to the lake, they weredelighted.
“Ah!” they said, “see how grand he looks! How he strides along! How hethrows back his head! This is a King indeed. He shall rule over us,”and they went joyfully to meet him.
As their new King came nearer, he paused, stretched out his long neck,picked up the head Frog, and swallowed him at one mouthful. And thenthe next—and the next!
“What is this?” cried the Frogs, and they began to draw back in terror.
But the Stork with his long legs easily followed them to the water, andkept on eating them as fast as he could.
“Oh! if we had only been—” said the oldest Frog. He was going to add“content,” but was eaten up before he could finish the sentence.
The remaining Frogs cried to Jupiter to help them, but he would notlisten. And the Stork-King ate them for breakfast, dinner, and supper,every day, till in a short time there was not a Frog left in the lake.Poor, foolish Frogs, not to have known when they were well off.
<s>
      A donkey once put on a lion’s skin which some hunters had spread outto dry. It did not fit the Donkey very well, but he found that in ithe could frighten all the timid, foolish little animals, so he amusedhimself by chasing them about.
By and by he met a Fox, and tried to frighten him by roaring.
“My dear Donkey,” said the wise Fox, “you are braying, and not roaring.I might, perhaps, have been frightened by your looks, if you had nottried to roar; but I know your voice too well to mistake you for aLion.”
<s>
      Some little mice, who lived in the walls of a house, met togetherone night, to talk of the wicked Cat and to consider what could bedone to get rid of her. The head Mice were Brown-back, Gray-ear, andWhite-whisker.
“There is no comfort in the house,” said Brown-back. “If I but stepinto the pantry to pick up a few crumbs, down comes the Cat, and I havehardly time to run to my nest again.”
“What can we do?” asked Gray-ear. “Shall we all run at her at once andbite her, and frighten her away?”
“No,” said White-whisker; “she is so bold we could not frighten her. Ihave thought of something better than that. Let us hang a bell roundher neck. Then, if she moves, the bell will ring, and we shall hear it,and have time to run away.”
“O yes! yes!” cried all the Mice. “That is a capital idea. We will bellthe Cat! Hurrah! hurrah! No more fear of the Cat!” and they danced inglee.
When their glee had subsided a little, Brown-back asked, “But who willhang the bell round her neck?”
No one answered. “Will you?” he asked of White-whisker.
“I don’t think I can,” replied White-whisker; “I am lame, you know. Itneeds some one who can move quickly.”
“Will you, Gray-ear?” said Brown-back.
“Excuse me,” answered Gray-ear; “I have not been well since that timewhen I was almost caught in the trap.”
“Who will bell the Cat, then?” said Brown-back. “If it is to be done,some one must do it.”
Not a sound was heard, and one by one the little Mice stole away totheir holes, no better off than they were before.
When there is trouble there is need of some one to act, as well as someone to advise.
<s>
      A kid coming home alone one night met a big wolf. “oh, oh, i know youwill kill me,” said the little Kid; “but please play me a tune, so thatI may have one more dance before I die; I am so fond of dancing.”
“Very well,” said the Wolf, “I will try, for I should like to see youdance before I eat you.”
Then the Wolf took up the shepherd’s pipe that was lying near, andbegan to play. But while he was playing, and the Kid was dancing a jig,the Dogs heard the sound, and came running up.
“It is my own fault,” said the Wolf, as the Dogs caught him. “Mybusiness is to kill Kids and eat them, and not to play for them todance. Why did I try to be a Piper, when I am really only a Butcher?”
“You didn’t play very well, either,” said the Kid.
<s>
      A nightingale sitting on the top of an oak, singing her evening song,was spied by a hungry Hawk, who swooped down and seized her. Thefrightened Nightingale prayed the Hawk to let her go.
“If you are hungry,” said she, “why not catch some large bird? I am notbig enough for even a luncheon.”
“Do you happen to see many large birds flying about?” said the Hawk.“You are the only bird I have seen to-day, and I should be foolishindeed to let you go for the sake of larger birds that are not insight. A morsel is better than nothing.”
<s>
      A thirsty crow once spied a pitcher, and flew to it to see if by chancethere was any water in it.
When she looked in, she saw that there was water, but that it was sofar from the top that she could not reach it, though she stretched herneck as far as she could.
She stopped, and thought to herself, “How shall I get that water? I amperishing with thirst, and there must be some way for me to get someof it.” Some pebbles were lying on the ground; and, picking them up inher beak, she dropped them one by one into the pitcher.
They sank to the bottom; and at last the water was pushed up by them tothe top, so that the Crow could easily drink it.
“Where there’s a will, there’s a way,” said the Crow.
<s>
      An ant, walking by the river one day, said to himself, “how nice andcool this water looks! I must drink some of it.” But as he began todrink, his foot slipped, and he fell in.
“Oh, somebody please help me, or I shall drown!” cried he.
A Dove, sitting in a tree that overhung the river, heard him, and threwhim a leaf. “Climb up on that leaf,” said she, “and you will floatashore.”
The Ant climbed up onto the leaf, which the wind blew to the shore, andhe stepped upon dry land again.
“Good-by, kind Dove,” said he, as he ran home. “You have saved my life,and I wish I could do something for you.”
“Good-by,” said the Dove; “be careful not to fall in again.”
A few days after this, when the Dove was busy building her nest, theAnt saw a man just raising his gun to shoot her.
He ran quickly, and bit the man’s leg so hard that he cried “Oh! oh!”and dropped his gun.
This startled the Dove, and she flew away. The man picked up his gun,and walked on.
When he was gone, the Dove came back to her nest.
“Thank you, my little friend,” she said. “You have saved my life.”
And the little Ant was overjoyed to think he had been able to do forthe Dove what the Dove had so lately done for him.
<s>
      An ox, drinking at a pool, chanced to set his foot on a young frog, andcrushed him to death.
His brothers and sisters, who were playing near, ran at once to telltheir mother what had happened. “Oh, Mother,” they cried, “a very hugebeast, with four great feet, came to the pool, and crushed our brotherto death in an instant, with his hard, cloven heel.”
The old Frog was very vain. She was rather large, as Frogs go, and gaveherself airs on account of it. “Was the cruel beast so very large?” shesaid. “How big?”
“Oh!” said the young Frogs. “It was a terrible monster!”
“Was it as big as this?” she said, blowing and puffing herself out.
“Oh, much bigger,” replied the young Frogs.
“As big as this, then?” she added, puffing and blowing with all hermight.
“A great deal bigger,” they answered.
“Well, was it _so_ big?”
“Oh, Mother!” cried the Frogs; “pray do not try to be so big. If youwere to puff till you burst, you could not make yourself half so big asthe creature we tell you of.”
But the silly old Frog would not give up. She tried again to puffherself out, saying, “As big as”—and she did indeed burst.
It is useless to attempt what is impossible.
<s>
      A bat, trying to fly one day, fell to the ground, and a weasel caughthim. The Bat begged the Weasel not to kill him.
“There is nothing I hate like a bird,” said the Weasel; “I always killthem.”
“But I am not a bird,” said the Bat, as he folded his wings close tohis sides; “birds don’t come tumbling down as I did; and besides, don’tyou see my little smooth head, and my ears?”
“Yes, yes,” said the Weasel, “I did not notice them at first. I see,you are a mouse”; so he let the Bat go.
Some time after, the Bat took another flight, and again fell to theground. Another Weasel came out of his hole and caught him.
“Pray don’t kill me,” said the Bat.
“Certainly I shall,” said the Weasel; “I kill mice wherever I findthem.”
“But stop a moment,” said the Bat, spreading his wings; “I am not amouse. Don’t you see my great wings? A mouse can’t fly, can it?”
“I beg your pardon,” said the Weasel; “I did not know that you were abird; I thought you were a mouse. I see I was mistaken.” Then he lethim go.
So the cunning Bat escaped a second time, but it is not often safe touse such arguments.
<s>
      A fox once happened to fall into a deep well. he tried in every way toget out, but at last began to think that it was impossible, and that hemust die there, a prisoner. While he was thinking how sad that wouldbe, a thirsty Goat came and looked down into the well, wishing that hecould get some water. He soon saw the Fox.
“Halloo,” said the Goat, “what are you doing down there? Is the watergood?”
“The best I ever tasted,” answered the Fox. “It is cool, and clear, anddelicious. Come down and try it yourself.”
“I will,” said the Goat, “for I am nearly dead with thirst.”
So he jumped down, and drank as much water as he wanted.
“Oh, how refreshing!” cried he.
“Yes,” said the Fox; “and now, if you have finished drinking, let meask how you expect to get out of this well again.”
“Oh, I don’t know,” replied the Goat. “How do you expect to get out?”
“That is what I have been wondering about for the last hour,” said theFox, “and have just now thought of a good plan. If you will put yourforefeet high up on the wall, I will climb up your back, and so getout, and then, of course, I can help you out.”
“Very well,” said the Goat, who was a simple creature, “that is a goodplan. How I wish I had your brains!” He put his forefeet on the wall,and the Fox easily climbed out and started to go on his way.
“Wait a moment,” called the Goat; “you forgot to help me out.”
“You foolish fellow!” said the Fox, with a mocking laugh; “you ought tohave thought how you would get out, before you jumped down. I fell in,but you went down of your own accord. Look before you leap next time,”and off he ran.
<s>
      A woman had a hen that laid an egg every day. the eggs were large, andsold for a good price. The Woman often thought, as she took them tomarket: “How glad they all are to get my eggs! I could sell as manymore just as easily.”
It began to look a small thing to her to get but a single egg each day.“If I were to give a double allowance of barley, the Hen might be madeto lay two eggs a day instead of one,” she said.
So she doubled the food, and the Hen grew very fat and sleek; but shestopped laying eggs.
<s>
      A sleepy dog went to the barn, and jumped into a manger full of hay,curling himself up there for an afternoon nap.
When he had been sleeping comfortably for some time, the Oxen came infor their supper.
The Dog awoke in a great rage at being disturbed, and began to growland bark at them. He would not let them get at the hay.
“Stop a moment,” said one of the Oxen. “Do you want to eat this hay?”
“No,” said the Dog; “I shouldn’t think of such a thing.”
“Very well, then,” said the Ox, “we do want to eat it, for we arehungry and tired.”
“Oh, go away,” growled the Dog, “and let me sleep.”
“What an ugly, snappish fellow!” said the Ox. “He will neither eat thehay himself nor let us eat it!”
<s>
      A mouse, who had always lived on the land, and a frog, who passed mostof his time in the water, became friends.
The Mouse showed the Frog his nest and everything he could think ofthat was pleasant to see; and the Frog invited the Mouse to go homewith him and see all the beautiful things that are under the water.
“Can you swim?” asked the Frog.
“Not much,” said the Mouse.
“No matter,” said the Frog; “I will tie your foot to my foot with apiece of this strong grass, and then I can pull you along nicely.” TheFrog laughed as he said this. He thought it would be good fun for him,but he well knew that the Mouse would not enjoy it.
When the Frog had tied the Mouse’s foot to his own, they startedtogether across the meadow. They soon came to the edge of the water,and the Frog jumped in, pulling the Mouse in with him.
“Oh, how cool and nice the water is, after the dry, hot land!” said theFrog, as he swam gayly about. But the poor Mouse was frightened.
“Please let me go,” said he, “or I shall die.”
“Oh, never mind,” said the unkind Frog; “you will get used to thewater. I just love it.”
But soon the poor Mouse was drowned, and floated up to the top of thewater, while the Frog frisked about down below.
Just then a Hawk saw the Mouse, and pounced upon it.
As he flew away with it the Frog was dragged out of the water, too, forhe was still tied to the Mouse.
“Stop, stop!” cried the Frog. “Let me go. It is the Mouse you want.”
“Come along,” said the Hawk; “I want you both. I will eat you first,for I like Frog meat even better than I do Mouse.”
In a few moments the Hawk had made a good supper, and there was nothingleft of either the false Frog or the foolish Mouse.
<s>
      A man who had a fine flock of sheep put them all into a field, andhired a Boy to take care of them, while he worked near by with his Men.
The Sheep went nibbling the grass all day, up and down the hills andalong the brook; and all that the Boy had to do was to look out for theWolf, and see that he did not come prowling into the field.
After a while the Boy began to wish that something would happen, itwas so tiresome staying there all alone, with no one to speak to andnothing to do. He wished he could be with the Men in the next field,or that they could come and stay with him. All at once he thought tohimself, “I will make them think the Wolf has come. That will be greatfun.”
So he called out as loudly as he could, “Help! help! The Wolf!” and allthe Men came running up.
When they found it was only a joke, they laughed, and went back totheir work.
On the next day the Boy tried the same trick again. As before, the Mendropped their mattocks and spades, for fear there might be danger, andran to the help of the Boy. He only laughed at them for their pains,and this time they did not relish the joke. Still the Boy did not giveit up. Again he shouted “Wolf! Wolf!” till the Men took no notice ofhim when he called them, no matter how loudly or how long he shouted.
After a while, the Wolf did get into the field. Then in real terror theBoy called and called: “Pray do come and help me. The Wolf is killingthe sheep. The Wolf! the Wolf!” But no one gave heed to his cries.Finding only a terrified coward in care of the flock, the Wolf left fewof them uninjured.
<s>
      All day long a fisherman had been toiling and had caught nothing.
“I will make one more effort,” thought he, “and then I must go home.”
He threw in his line, and soon drew up a very small perch.
The little Fish was terribly frightened when he found himself out ofwater, and with a sharp hook sticking in his mouth; and he said to theFisherman:
“O sir, take pity upon me, and throw me into the water again! See whata little thing I am. I should not make one mouthful for you now; butif you leave me in the water, I shall grow large and stout, and then Ishall be worth catching. You can make a dinner of me then, or sell mefor a good price.”
“Ah!” said the Fisherman, “it is true you are small, but I have yousafely now. If I should throw you back, I might never catch you again.You are better than nothing. I will keep you”; and he put the littleFish into his basket, and took him home with him.
<s>
      A crow stole a piece of cheese one day, and flew with it up into atree, so as to eat it at her leisure.
As she sat there, holding it in her beak, a Fox chanced to pass by, andlooking up saw her. “How good that cheese smells!” thought he; “I’llhave it, sure as I’m a Fox.”
Coming close to the tree, he said, “My dear Madam, what a beautifulcreature you are! I was not aware till this moment what rare beautyyour family possesses. What eyes! What glossy feathers! What grace ofform! Is your voice as charming to hear, as your person is to lookupon? If it is, you well deserve to be called the Queen of Birds. Willyou not do me the favor to sing to me?”
Now it is well known that the Caw! Caw! of the Crow family is notmusical. She ought to have been on her guard, but so delighted was shewith the flattery of the Fox that she forgot to be wary. She opened hermouth to show the Fox the sweetness of her voice, when—down fell thebit of cheese, which was exactly what was expected.
The Fox ate it at one mouthful, then stopped to say, “Thank you, madam.I am quite satisfied. Your voice is well enough, I have no doubt. Whata pity it is you are so sadly wanting in wit!” The Crow learned that we do well to be on our guard when people flatterus.
<s>
      A fowler caught a partridge, and was just going to kill it.
“Wait a moment,” said the Partridge; “don’t kill me.”
“Why not?” said the Fowler.
“Because I like to live,” said the Partridge; “and, besides, if you letme go, I will bring some of my friends and neighbors here, and you cancatch them, and that will be better than only one poor bird.”
“You are willing, then, that your friends and neighbors should die, tosave your own life?” said the Fowler. “Wicked Partridge! you have livedlong enough.” And he killed it.
<s>
      A pigeon who was very thirsty saw a goblet of water painted on asignboard.
Without stopping to see what it was, she flew to it with a loud whir,and dashing against the signboard, jarred herself terribly. Havingbroken her wings, she fell to the ground, and was caught by a man, whosaid, “Your zeal should never outrun your caution.”
<s>
      A great city was once besieged, and all its inhabitants were gatheredtogether to consider by what means it might be protected from theenemy.
A Bricklayer earnestly recommended bricks as the best materials forsuccessful defense.
A Carpenter with equal energy proposed timber as a preferable means ofdefense.
Hearing which, a Currier stood up and said, “Sirs, I differ with youwholly. There is no material for resistance equal to a covering ofhides, and nothing in the present case so good as leather.” 
Every man for his own trade.
<s>
      In a forest, deep, shady, and still, there once lived a company ofHares.
Whenever a leaf fell rustling to the ground, or a squirrel, jumping inthe branches, broke a twig, the Hares started and trembled, they wereso timid.
One day there came a great wind, rushing through the tops of the treeswith a roaring noise, and waving the branches back and forth.
It frightened the Hares so much that they all started together, runningas fast as they could to get out of the forest, which had been theirhome.
“What a sad state is ours,” they said, “never to eat in comfort, tosleep always in fear, to be startled by a shadow, and fly with beatingheart at the rustling of the leaves. Better death, by far. Let us drownourselves in yonder lake.”
But when they came to the lake, it happened that there were scoresof frogs sporting on the banks; who, when they heard the sound offootsteps, jumped into the water.
The timid Hares were startled by the splash; but, as they saw the frogsdive to the bottom of the lake, a wise old Hare said, “Stop a moment!let us consider. Here are creatures that are more timid than we—theyare afraid even of us. See, they are drowning themselves for fear ofus! It may not be so bad with us as we thought. Perhaps we have beenfoolish, as foolish as the frogs, who are alarmed when there is nodanger. Let us make the best of our lot, and try to be brave in it.” Soback they went again to the forest.
<s>
      A most rapacious eagle had his eyrie on a lofty rock. sitting there, hecould watch the movements of the animals he wished to make his prey,and, waiting his opportunity, seize them and bear them away.
The poor creatures had no protection from such a foe. But an archer sawhim one day watching, from his place of concealment, the movements ofan unsuspicious hare; and, taking aim, he wounded him mortally.
The Eagle gave one look at the Arrow that had entered his heart, andsaw that its feathers had been furnished by himself, when descending tosecure prey.
“Ah!” said the Eagle, “it is indeed a double grief that I should perishby an Arrow feathered from my own wing.”
<s>
      One day a mother eagle came flying out of her nest to look for food forher babies. She circled round and round, far up in the air, lookingdown upon the earth with her keen eyes.
By and by she saw a little baby Fox, whose mother had left it alonewhile, like the Eagle, she went for food.
Down came the bird, whir went her wings, and away she soared again,with the little Fox clutched fast in her claws.
The poor mother Fox just at that moment came running home to her child,and saw it being carried away.
“O Eagle!” she cried, “leave me my one little baby. Remember your ownchildren, and how you would feel if one of them should be taken away.Oh, bring back my poor cub!”
But the cruel Eagle, thinking that the Fox could never reach her, inher nest high in the pine tree, flew away with the little Fox, and leftthe poor mother to cry.
But the mother Fox did not stop to cry long. She ran to a fire that wasburning in the field, caught up a blazing stick of wood, and ran withit in her mouth to the pine tree where the Eagle had her nest.
The Eagle saw her coming, and knew that the Fox would soon have thetree on fire, and that all her young ones would be burned. So, to saveher own brood, she begged the Fox to stop, and brought her back herlittle one, safe and sound.
<s>
      A drum once boasted to a vase of sweet herbs in this way: “listen tome! My voice is loud and can be heard far off. I stir the hearts ofmen so that when they hear my bold roaring they march out bravely tobattle.”
The Vase spoke no words, but gave out a fine, sweet perfume, whichfilled the air and seemed to say: “I cannot speak, and it is not wellto be proud, but I am full of good things that are hidden within me,and that gladly come forth to give cheer and comfort. People are drawnto me in their need, and they remember me afterward with gratitude. Butyou have nothing in you but noise, and you must be struck to make yougive that out. I would not boast so much if I were you.”
<s>
      Once there were two frogs who were dear friends.
One lived in a deep pond in the woods, where the trees hung over thewater, and where no one came to disturb him.
The other lived in a small pool. This was not a good place for a Frog,or any one else, to live in, for the country road passed through thepool, and all the horses and wagons had to go that way, so that it wasnot quiet like the pond, and the horses made the water muddy and foul.
One day the Frog from the pond said to the other, “Do come and livewith me; I have plenty of food and water, and nothing to disturb me;and it is so pleasant in my pond. Now here there is very little food,and not much water, and the road passes through your pool, so that youmust always be afraid of passers-by.”
“Thank you,” said the other Frog; “you are very kind, but I am quitecontent here. There is water enough; those who pass never trouble me;and as to food, I had a good dinner day before yesterday. I am used tothis place, you know, and do not like change. But come and see me asoften as you can.”
The next time the Frog from the pond came to visit his friend, he couldnot find him.
“Too late!” sang a Bird, who lived in a tree that overhung the pool.
“What do you mean?” said the Frog.
“Dead and gone!” said the Bird. “Run over by a wagon and killed, twodays ago, and a big Hawk came and carried him off.”
“Alas! if he had only taken my advice, he might have been well andhappy now,” said the Frog, as he turned sadly towards home; “but hewould have his way, and I have lost my friend.”
<s>
      It once happened that a hungry lion woke to find a mouse just under hispaw. He caught the tiny creature, and was about to make a mouthful ofhim, when the little fellow looked up, and began to beg for his life.
In most piteous tones the Mouse said: “Do not eat me. I meant no harmcoming so near you. If you would only spare my life now, O Lion, Iwould be sure to repay you!”
The Lion laughed scornfully at this, but it amused him so much that helifted his paw and let his brave little prisoner go free.
It befell the great Lion, not long afterward, to be in as evil a caseas had been the helpless Mouse. And it came about that his life was tobe saved by the keeping of the promise he had ridiculed.
He was caught by some hunters, who bound him with a strong rope, whilethey went away to find means for killing him.
Hearing his loud groans, the Mouse came promptly to his rescue, andgnawed the great rope till the royal captive could set himself free.
“You laughed,” the little Mouse said, “at the idea of my being able tobe of service to you. You little thought I should repay you. But yousee it has come to pass that you are as grateful to me as I was once toyou. The weak have their place in the world as truly as the strong.”
<s>
      A young mouse, that had not seen much of the world, came home one dayand said: “O mother! I have had such a fright! I saw a great creaturestrutting about on two legs. I wonder what it was! On his head was ared cap. His eyes were fierce and stared at me, and he had a sharpmouth.
“All at once he stretched his long neck, and opened his mouth so wide,and roared so loud, that I thought he was going to eat me up, and Iran home as fast as I could. I was sorry that I met him, for I hadjust seen a lovely animal, greater even than he, and would have madefriends with her. She had soft fur like ours, only it was gray andwhite. Her eyes were mild and sleepy, and she looked at me very gentlyand waved her long tail from side to side. I thought she wished tospeak to me, and I would have gone near her, but that dreadful thingbegan to roar, and I ran away.”
“My dear child,” said the mother, “you did well to run away. The fiercething you speak of would have done you no harm. It was a harmless Cock.But that soft, pretty thing was the Cat, and she would have eaten youup in a minute, for she is the worst enemy you have in the whole world.Appearances are not always to be trusted.”
<s>
      Once upon a time a man came to a forest to ask the trees if they wouldgive him some wood to make a handle for his Ax.
The Trees thought this was very little to ask of them, and they gavehim a good piece of hard wood. But as soon as the man had fitted thehandle to his Ax, he went to work to chop down all the best Trees inthe forest.
As they fell groaning and crashing to the ground, they said mournfullyone to another, “Our kindness was misplaced. We suffer for our ownfoolishness.”
<s>
      A jackdaw sat chattering upon the back of a sheep.
“Peace, I pray you, noisy bird,” said the Sheep. “You are wearing mylife out If I were a dog, you would not think of serving me so.”
“That is true,” replied the Jackdaw; “you are right. I never meddlewith the surly and revengeful; but I love to plague gentle, helplesscreatures like you, that can not do me any harm in return.”
“I wonder if all cowards are not like the Jackdaw,” mused the Sheep, asit went on contentedly browsing on the hillside.
<s>
      A hungry cat, who had tried in vain to find a mouse for her supper, atlast caught a young Cock.
“You are a noisy creature,” she said to him, “and have lived longenough. You disturb every one in the house by your loud crowing in themorning.”
“You are mistaken,” answered the Cock; “I disturb no one. I crow towake the family. They would not know when to get up but for me.”
“Never mind,” said the Cat; “don’t trouble yourself to make excuses; Ihave had no breakfast and no dinner; I shall eat you for my supper.”
<s>
      A wolf saw a goat feeding at the top of a steep precipice, where hecould not reach her.
“My dear friend,” said the Wolf, “be careful! I am afraid you will falland break your neck. Do come down to the meadow, where the grass isfresh and green.”
“Are you very hungry?” said the Goat. “And is it your dinner time? Andwould you like to eat me? I think I will not go down to the meadowto-day, thank you.”
And she capered contentedly about on the edge of the rock, as safe fromfalling as she was from the greedy Wolf with his false care for her.
<s>
      A hen who had no nest of her own found some eggs, and, in the kindnessof her heart, thought she would take care of them, and keep them warm.
But they were the eggs of a viper; and by and by the little snakesbegan to come out of the shell.
A Swallow, who was passing, stopped to look at them.
“What a foolish creature you were, to hatch those eggs!” said theSwallow. “Don’t you know that as soon as the little snakes grow bigenough, they will bite some one—probably _you_ first of all?”
“Then,” said the Hen, as she stood on one leg and looked at the uglylittle snakes, first with one eye and then with the other, “you thinkI have done more harm than good?”
“I certainly do,” said the Swallow, as she flew away. “Good judgment isbetter than thoughtless kindness.”
<s>
      One very stormy day a poor man came to a rich man’s house to beg.
“Away with you!” said the servants; “do not come here troubling us.”
Then said the Man, “Only let me come in and dry my clothes at yourfire.” This, the servants thought, would not cost them anything; sothey let him come in.
The Poor Man then asked the cook to let him have a pan, so that hecould make some stone broth.
“Stone broth!” said the cook. “I should like to see how you can makebroth out of a stone”; so she gave him a pan. The Man filled it withwater from the pump, and then put into it a stone from the road. “Butyou must have some salt,” said the cook.
“Do you think so?” courteously replied the stranger. She gave him thesalt, and before long she added some peas, some mint, and thyme. Atlast she brought him all the scraps of meat she could find, so that thePoor Man’s broth made him a good dinner.
“You see,” said the Man, “that if you only try long enough, and arecheerful, making the best of what you have, you may at last get whatyou want.”
<s>
      A mule, hearing some grasshoppers chirping, was much pleased with thesound, and wished that he could make such sweet music.
“What sort of food do you eat,” said he to the Grasshoppers, “that yourvoices are so charming?”
The Grasshoppers replied, “We live upon dew.”
The Mule then decided that he too would live upon dew. And in a shorttime he died of hunger, just from trying to do what he saw othersdoing, without first learning their reason for it.
<s>
      A gnat, who had flown about until he was tired, sat down to rest on thehorn of a Bull.
After sitting there a long time, he thought he would go home. So hemade a loud buzzing noise and said to the Bull, “Would you like to haveme stay longer, or shall I go now?”
“Just as you please,” said the Bull. “I did not know when you came, andI am sure I shall not miss you when you go away.”
“What an amount of self-importance for such a tiny creature,” thoughtthe sleepy Bull.
<s>
      A hungry fox surprised a crab, who had left the sea and was lying uponthe beach.
“What good luck, to find a breakfast so easily,” said the Fox, as hepounced upon him.
“Well,” said the Crab, when he found that he was to be eaten, “thiscomes of going where I have no business; I should have stayed in thewater, where I belonged.”
<s>
      A donkey was one day walking through a pond, with a load of wood on hisback, when his foot slipped and he fell.
“Help, help!” cried the poor Donkey, as he struggled and kicked in thewater. But his load was so heavy that he could not rise, and he groanedaloud.
The Frogs heard his groans but showed no pity. “What a foolish fellow,”said they, “to make such a fuss about a little fall into the water.What would you say if you had to live here always, as we do?”
<s>
      A wolf, prowling about to find something for supper, heard a childcrying in a house. Listening, he heard the Nurse say, “Stop crying thisminute, or I will throw you out of doors to the Wolf.”
The Wolf sat down near the door, thinking within himself, “I shall soonhave a good supper.”
The Baby cried and cried, till at last it went to sleep; and then theWolf heard the Nurse say: “There, that’s a good Baby. If the naughtyold Wolf comes for my darling, we’ll beat him, so we will.”
The Wolf trotted sadly home. On his way he met the Fox.
“What makes you look so sour and so forlorn, my friend?” said the Fox.
“Don’t speak to me!” growled the Wolf. “I have lost my supper justbecause I believed what a Nurse said to a Baby.”
<s>
      A cat, hearing that some birds who lived in a martin box near by wereill, put on his spectacles and his overcoat, and made himself look asmuch as possible like a doctor, and went and knocked at their door.
“I hear that you are all sick,” said he, “and have come to call on you.Let me in, and I will give you some medicine and cure you.”
“No, thank you,” said the Birds, who saw his whiskers and knew he wastheir enemy the Cat; “we are well enough—much better than if we shouldopen our door and let you in.”
<s>
      A fox went prowling about a farmyard, not seeing a trap which thefarmer had hidden there to catch him. Snap! went the trap, and the Foxfound himself held fast by a strong cord. He howled horribly and wasalmost beside himself with rage.
A Cock, hearing the noise, flew to the top of the fence. Looking over,he saw the Fox and was terribly frightened—not daring to go near him,even when he found that his old enemy could not move. But he could notrefrain from giving an exulting crow.
The Fox, looking up, said: “Dear Mr. Cock, you see how unlucky I havebeen, and all because I came here to inquire after your health. Doplease help me to break this string, or at least do not let any oneknow that I am caught until I have time to gnaw it with my teeth.”
The Cock said nothing, but went as fast as he could and told his masterall about it. So the crafty Fox was served as the Cock thought hedeserved to be.
<s>
      A cavalry officer took the greatest of pains with his charger. as longas the war lasted, the Horse was looked upon as a companion and fellowhelper. He was carefully groomed every day, and fed with hay and oats.
But when the war was over, the allowance of grain and hay ceased, andthe Horse was fed with chaff and whatever he might find by the wayside.He was made a drudge too, and was often forced to carry loads much tooheavy for his strength.
When, in course of time, war was again proclaimed, the soldier broughthis military trappings and put them on his charger; and, after havingarrayed his own person with his heavy coat of mail, he mounted to rideto battle.
But the Horse, no longer equal to the burden, fell down straightwayunder the weight.
“You must go to the war on foot,” he said to his master, “for you havetransformed me from a horse into an ass.”
He who slights his friends when he does not need their best officesmust not expect them to serve him when he needs them again.
<s>
      The fox and the stork were on what seemed to be friendly terms. theFox invited the Stork to a dinner for which nothing was provided but asoup, which was served on a wide, shallow dish.
The Fox presided at the feast with great dignity, and, as if to sethis friend an example, proceeded to lap the soup. This _he_ could dowith the greatest ease; but the Stork, who could only dip the tip ofhis bill in the dish and get the tempting odor, fared badly. He praisedthe dinner, but soon took leave, saying to his friend that he should dohimself the honor to return the compliment.
This he did in a few days, but ordered that nothing be brought to thetable but some minced meat in a glass jar, the neck of which was sonarrow and deep that, though he himself could eat very well, the Foxcould not reach it, and so could only lick the brim for the bits thatclung to it.
Reynard could not conceal his vexation, but was obliged to own that hehad been rightly used.
They who practice cunning must expect to suffer by it, and he laughsbest who laughs last.
<s>
      A dog and a cock, who were neighbors, once made a little journeytogether.
When night came on, the Cock flew up into the branches of a tree tosleep; and the Dog found a hollow in the trunk, into which he couldcreep and lie down. They slept well, and as soon as the morning dawned,the Cock, as usual, began to crow.
A Fox, hearing the sound and thinking he was sure of a good breakfast,came and stood under the branches. “Good morning,” said he to the Cock.
“How glad I am to make the acquaintance of the owner of such a voice!Will you not come down here where we can chat a little?”
“Thank you, I cannot just yet,” replied the Cock; “but if you wouldlike to come up here, go around the tree trunk, and wake my servant. Hewill open the door and let you in.”
The Fox did as he was requested; but as he approached the tree, the Dogsprang upon him, and tore him to pieces.
“Two can play at the same game,” said the Cock, as he looked down uponthe scene.
<s>
      A fly alighted one night upon a pot of honey, and finding it very muchto his taste, began to eat it along the edges.
Little by little, however, he had soon crept away from the edge andinto the jar, until at last he found himself stuck fast. His legs andwings had become so smeared with the honey that he could not use them.
Just then a Moth flew by, and seeing him struggling there, said: “Oh,you foolish Fly! Were you so greedy as to be caught like that? Yourappetite was too much for you.”
The poor Fly had nothing to say in reply. What the Moth said was true.But by and by, when evening came, he saw the Moth flying round alighted candle in the giddiest way, and each time a little closer tothe flame, until at last he flew straight into it and was burned.
“What!” said the Fly, “are you foolish, too? You found fault with mefor being too fond of honey; yet all your wisdom did not keep you fromplaying with fire.” It is sometimes easier to see the foolishness ofothers than to detect our own.
<s>
      A little boy once went in bathing where the water was too deep for him.When he found himself sinking, he cried out to a Man who was passingby, to come and help him.
“Can’t you swim?” asked the Man.
“No,” replied the Boy, “I don’t know how.”
“How foolish you were, then,” said the Man, “to go into deep water!Didn’t you know better?”
“Oh, good sir, please help me now, or I shall drown!” cried the Boy.“You can scold me when I am safe on shore again.”
<s>
      A hare one day made himself merry over the slow pace of the tortoise,vainly boasting of his own great speed in running.
The Tortoise took the laughing and boasting in good part. “Let us try arace,” she said; “I will run with you five miles for five dollars, andthe Fox out yonder shall be the judge.”
The Hare agreed, a course was arranged, and away they started together.True to his boasting the Hare was out of sight in a moment.
The Tortoise never for a moment stopped, but jogged along with a slow,steady pace, straight to the end of the course. Full of sport, the Harefirst outran the Tortoise, then fell behind. Having come midway to thegoal, he began to nibble at the young herbage, and to amuse himself inmany ways. After a while, the day being warm, he lay down for a nap,saying: “She is behind me now. If she should go by, I can easily enoughcatch up.”
When the Hare awoke, the Tortoise was not in sight; and running as fastas he could, he found her comfortably dozing at their goal.
Those who are very quick are apt to be too sure. Slow and steady oftenwins the race.
<s>
      As an arab sat in his tent one cold night, he saw the curtain gentlylifted, and the face of his Camel looking in.
“What is it?” he asked kindly.
“It is cold, master,” said the Camel; “suffer me, I pray thee, to holdmy head within the tent.”
“By all means,” replied the hospitable Arab; and the Camel stood withhis head inside the tent.
“Might I also warm my neck a little?” he entreated after a moment.
The Arab readily consented, and the Camel’s neck was thrust within thetent.
He stood, moving his head from side to side uneasily, and presentlysaid: “It is awkward standing thus. It would take but little more roomif I were to place my forelegs inside the tent.”
“You may place your forelegs within the tent,” said the Arab. And nowhe had to move a little to make room, for the tent was small.
The Camel spoke again: “I keep the tent open by standing thus, and makeit cold for us both. May I not stand wholly within?”
“Yes,” said the Arab, whose compassion included his beast as well ashimself; “come in wholly if you wish.” But now the tent proved to betoo small to hold both.
“I think, after all,” said the Camel, as he crowded himself in, “thatthere will not be room here for us both. You are the smaller; it willbe best for you to stand outside. There will be room then for me.” Sohe pushed a little, and the Arab with all haste went outside the tent.
<s>
      A fox was once caught in a trap by his tail. he succeeded in gettingaway, but was forced to leave his “brush” behind. He soon realized thathis life would be a burden, from the shame and ridicule to which histailless condition would expose him.
“I must not own that it is a misfortune not to have a bushy tail,” hesaid to himself.
So he set about to induce all the other Foxes to part with theirs. Atthe next assembly he boldly made a speech, in which he set forth theadvantages of his present state.
“The tail,” he said, “is no real part of our persons, and besides beingvery ugly to see, it exposes us to danger from the dogs. I have nevermoved about with such ease as since I gave up my own.”
When he had ended his speech, a sly old Fox arose, and giving his ownbrush a graceful wave, said, with the kind of sneer which all Foxesknow so well how to give, that if he had lost by accident his own tail,he should, without doubt, agree with his friend; but that, as the brushwas a fox’s chief ornament and distinction, until such a mishap shouldoccur as had befallen his friend, he should retain his own and shouldadvise the others to do the same. And the vote to retain the tails wasgiven by a wave of the brush. Yet many fashions have been set by Foxeswho have met with some such accident.
<s>
      Some boys, playing near a pond, saw a number of frogs sporting in thewater.
“Let us see if we can hit them; it is great fun to make them dive,”said one; and they all began to pelt them with stones.
At last, after several Frogs had been hit, one of them put his head upout of the water, and said: “Pray stop, Boys. Throwing stones at us maybe great sport for you, but it is death to us. We have done you noharm, and alas! you have already killed or wounded three of our family.”
<s>
      A wise swallow, seeing a man sow seed in a field, went behind him andpicked up one of the seeds to see what it was.
She found that it was flax. “When this flax has grown,” she said toherself, “the man will make it into linen thread and use it to makenets for catching us Birds.”
So she went to all the Birds and told them what she had discovered,begging them to come and help her eat up the flaxseed before it shouldsprout. “This field,” she said, “is as much ours as it is his. Andwhile one of us can do but little, all working together can quicklyremove our danger.”
But the Birds would not listen to her. Not one of them could shepersuade to help her pick up the seeds which the farmer had sown.
By and by the flax sprang up, and the Swallow tried again to persuadethe Birds to pull the young flax before it grew large. But they allmade fun of her caution and let the flax keep growing.
When she saw how heedless all the Birds were, the Swallow would havenothing more to do with them, but left the woods where they lived andcame among men, building her nests in barns and along the eaves ofhouses.
<s>
      One wintry day a farmer found a snake lying on the frozen ground, quitestiff and nearly dead with cold.
In a fit of compassion the Farmer brought him carefully to his house,and laid him near the fire. But as soon as the Snake began to feel thepleasant warmth, he raised his head and tried to bite his kind friend.
“Oh!” said the Farmer, “is that the way you repay me for my trouble?You are a venomous creature, I am sure, and the sooner you die thebetter.” And he killed him with one blow of his stick.
<s>
      A raven saw a snowy swan floating on the lake.
“No wonder the Swan is so white,” thought the Raven, as he looked athis own black feathers. “I dare say _I_ should be, if I were all thetime washing myself. I believe I’ll try it.”
Then he left his home, where he always found plenty to eat, and cameand lived by the lake. He washed himself from morning till night, buthe grew no whiter; and, as he found nothing to eat, he came near dyingfor want of food.
<s>
      There was once a big battle between the birds and the beasts.Hesitating as to which to join, the Bat kept away from the contest andlooked on till he thought the Beasts would win the day.
Then he went among them. When they saw him, they said, “But you are aBird.”
“No, indeed,” said the Bat. “Look at my body covered with hair and atmy mouth with its sharp teeth.”
After a while, as the fight went on, the Birds began to have the bestof it, and then away flew the Bat to their side. “What Beast comeshere?” said the Birds.
“I am not a Beast,” said the Bat; “I am a Bird. Look at my wings. Thisis my battle as truly as it is yours.”
But the Birds would have nothing to do with him. And to this day theBat seems ashamed to show himself in the daytime but hides in lonelyplaces, away from all other creatures, and only flits about noiselesslyin the dark, when both Birds and Beasts are asleep.
<s>
      A man and his son were once driving their donkey along a country road,to sell him at the fair. They soon passed some girls, who were drawingwater at a well.
“Look,” said one of the girls; “see those silly people trudging alongin the dust, while their Donkey walks at his ease.”
The Man heard what they said, and put his boy on the Donkey’s back.They had not gone far before they came to some old men.
“See here, now,” said one of them to the others, “this shows that whatI said is true. Nowadays the young take no care of the old. See thisboy riding while his poor old father has to walk by his side.”
Hearing this, the Man told his Son to get down, and he mounted theDonkey himself. In a little while they met three women with children intheir arms.
“For shame!” said the women. “How can you let that poor boy walk whenhe looks so tired, and you ride like a king?”
The Man then took the boy up behind him on the saddle, and they rode onto the town. Just before they got there, some young men stopped themand said:
“Is that Donkey yours?”
“Yes,” said the Man.
“One would not think so,” said they, “by the way you load him. You lookmore fit to carry him than he to carry you.”
So the Man and the boy got off, tied the Donkey’s legs with a rope,fastened him to a pole, and, each taking one end of the pole, carriedhim along, while every one they met laughed outright.
By and by they came to a bridge. Then the Donkey began to kick, andbreaking the rope, fell into the water and was drowned.
The old Man and his Son made their way home as best they could,thinking to themselves, “When we try to please everybody, we pleasenobody.”
<s>
      A mouse from the city went on a visit to a friend in the country.
The Country Mouse, with many apologies, brought out the best that hehad and waited on his guest.
There was plenty of oatmeal and peas, a nice scrap of bacon, and even aparing of cheese for dessert. While the guest was dining, the CountryMouse, out of politeness, would eat none of these dainties, for fearthere should not be enough for both, but nibbled a piece of straw tokeep his guest company.
When the dinner was over, the City Mouse said: “Old friend, I thank youfor your courtesy, but I must have a plain talk with you. I do not seehow you can bear to live so poor a life in this little hole. Why notcome with me to the city, where you will have all sorts of good thingsto eat and a gay time? You are wasting your life. When you have onceseen the city you will never be willing to return to this quiet place.”
After being urged a long time, the Country Mouse at last agreed to goto the city that very night. So they started off together, and aboutmidnight came to the great house where the City Mouse lived. In thedining room was spread a rich feast; and the City Mouse, with manyairs and graces, ran about the table, and, picking out the nicest bits,waited upon his country friend, who, amazed at the good things, ate tohis heart’s content.
All at once the doors of the dining room were flung open, and in came acrowd of people, followed by a big dog, who barked loudly and ran aboutthe room.
The Mice rushed for the hole, to escape, and the little field Mousealmost died of fright. As soon as he was able to speak, he said:
“Well! if this is city life, I have seen enough of it. Stay in thisfine place if you like. I shall be only too glad to get home to myquiet, safer, country house and my plain oatmeal and peas.”
<s>
      “come, my dears,” said a cock to his hens one morning; “i am hungry,and so are you. Let us go out. I will scratch up some nice worms andbeetles for our breakfast.”
The hens stood waiting while he scratched.
But the first thing that he found was neither a beetle nor a worm but aprecious stone. It may have been a ruby or an emerald.
“Dear me!” said the Cock; “what is this? a Jewel! How glad anybodyelse might be to have found such a prize; but I have no need of it. Iwould rather have a few kernels of good corn than all the Jewels in theworld.”
“And so would we,” said the hens. “Nothing can do us good if it is nota thing that we ourselves want.”
<s>
      Once there was a beautiful hound. he had long, silky ears and a smooth,bright skin; and he was not only beautiful but strong and swift, anda faithful servant. Whenever his master went hunting, the Hound wentwith him and chased the deer. After many years the Hound grew old andfeeble, but still he followed his master, with the other dogs.
One day a stag had been chased till it was almost tired out, andthe old Hound came up with it and seized it; but his teeth were oldand broken and could not hold fast, so that the stag gave a suddenbound and got away. Just then the master rode up, and seeing what hadhappened, was very angry. He took his whip to strike his faithful oldHound.
“Hold! hold! O dear Master,” said he, “do not strike me. I meant to dowell. It is not my fault that I am old. Remember what I have been, ifyou do not like me as I am now.”
<s>
      Jupiter having determined, it is said, to appoint a sovereign overthe birds, proclamation was made that on a certain day the candidatesshould present themselves before him, and he would choose the mostbeautiful to be king.
The Jackdaw, knowing his own ugliness, yet wishing to rule over thebirds, searched through woods and fields for feathers which had fallenfrom the wings of his companions, and stuck them all over his body.
When the appointed day arrived, and the birds had assembled, theJackdaw made his appearance in his many-feathered finery, and Jupiterproposed to make him king.
Upon seeing this, the other birds were indignant, and each pluckingfrom the Jackdaw his own kind of feathers, they left the proposed kinga plain Jackdaw with no claim to superior beauty.
<s>
      There was once a man who had a donkey and a little pet dog. the donkeyworked all day in the fields and slept in the barn at night.
But the Lap Dog frisked about and played, jumping in his master’s lapwhenever he pleased, feeding from his hand, and sleeping by his bed atnight.
The Donkey grumbled a great deal at this. “How hard I work!” said he,“and I never get any pay but blows and hard words. Why should I not bepetted like that wretched little Dog? It may be partly my own fault.Perhaps if I played with my master as he does, I too might be treatedlike him.”
So the Donkey pushed his way into the house, and jumped up on hismaster’s knee, putting his forefeet on his shoulders and giving a loudbray.
The master, almost deafened by the noise and in danger from the greatclumsy creature, called out, “Help! help!” and the servants, runningin, drove the Donkey out of doors with sticks and stones.
<s>
      A doe, blind in one eye, used to graze as near as she could to the edgeof a cliff, so that she might keep her blind eye to the water, whilewith the other she kept watch against the approach of hunters or hounds   Some boatmen sailing by saw her standing thus on the edge of a cliff,and finding that she did not perceive their approach, they came veryclose, and taking aim, shot her.
Finding herself wounded, she said, “O unhappy creature that I am, totake such care as I did against the dangers of the land, and then,after all, to find this seashore, to which I had come for safety, somuch more perilous!”
<s>
      When man first beheld the camel, he was so awed by his vast size thathe fled away from him in terror.
But after a time, perceiving the meekness and gentleness of theanimal’s temper, he summoned courage to approach him. The Camel soreadily obeyed the commands that were given him, and seemed so wantingin spirit, that at last the man put a bridle in his mouth and set achild to guide him.
Since then Camels are valued for the service they render.
<s>
      A wolf met a dog, and seeing that he looked fat and sleek, said tohim, “How does it happen, my friend, that you are so plump, while I,although I run after game day and night, am half starved?”
“Why,” said the Dog, “I do not have to run after my food. I only guardthe house at night, and all the family pet me and feed me with scrapsfrom their own plates. Come and live with me, and you shall be as welloff as I am.”
“That I should like,” said the Wolf. “I will at least go with you andtry the life.”
As they trotted along the road together, the Wolf saw a mark on theDog’s neck, and asked him what it was.
“Oh, that is nothing,” said the Dog; “only a little mark made by thefretting of my chain.”
“Do you wear a chain?” asked the Wolf; “and do you mean to say that youare tied up?”
“Why, yes,” said the Dog; “they tie me in the daytime, but at night Ican go where I please. It is a bit annoying at first, but one soon getsused to it.”
“Good-by,” said the Wolf; “that is enough for me. Though I may not befat, I will at least be free.”
<s>
      On the bank of a river grew a tall oak tree. it stood with its rootsfirm in the ground, and its head high in the air, and said to itself:“How strong I am! Nothing shall make me bow. I look down upon all theother trees.”
But one day there was a storm. The terrible unseen wind came and struckthe proud Oak. Crash! went the trunk, down came all the beautifulbranches, and the Tree fell into the river. As the water carried itaway, it passed a Reed that grew on the bank. The little Reed stood uptall and slender, and looked at the poor broken Tree.
“O Reed,” said the Tree, “how did it happen that you were not brokendown and spoiled when the wind came? You are so little and weak, and Iwas so strong and proud.”
“Ah, poor Tree!” said the Reed, “that is just the reason that the winddid not hurt me. I bent low until it had gone by, but you stood stiffand tried to stop it on its way. No one can stop the wind. It must gowhere it is sent, but it will not hurt those who are not proud andstubborn.”
<s>
      A dog once gave chase to a hare. having not long since made a goodmeal, the Dog was not hungry, and so was not in haste to end the sportby killing the Hare.
At times he would snap at his prey, and at times play with him andlick him with his tongue, till at last the bewildered Hare cried:
“Pray tell me, are you an enemy or a friend? If a friend, why do youbite me so? and if an enemy, why do you caress me?”
No one can trust a person who is neither the one thing nor the other.
<s>
      The pigeons, terrified by the frequent appearance of a kite, asked theHawk to help them.
“You are the only bird of our acquaintance,” they said, “that canprotect us from our enemy. If you will take care of us, we shall feelsafe.”
The Hawk at once consented, and took up his abode in the dovecote. Butwhen the Pigeons had let him come in, they found that he slew moreof them in a single day than the Kite could possibly pounce upon in awhole year.
The oldest, wisest pigeon among them said: “When we are in trouble,we must not forget that there are other dangers than the ones we aresuffering from. There is a proverb among men that tells them to avoid aremedy that is worse than the disease.”
<s>
      A war horse, ready for battle, with his splendid saddle and jinglingbridle, came galloping swiftly along the highroad, his hoofs soundinglike thunder on the hard ground.
A poor old Mule, with a heavy load on his back, was going slowly downthe same road.
“Out of my way,” said the War Horse, “or I will trample you in thedust!”
The poor Mule made room for him as fast as he could, and the Horse wentproudly on his way.
Not long after this the Horse was shot in the eye; and, as he was nolonger fit for the army, his fine saddle and bridle were taken off, andhe was sold to a farmer, who made him drag heavy loads.
Since he had not been trained to the work, it came hard to him, and hecomplained bitterly.
The Mule, meeting him soon after, knew him and called out: “Aha! is ityou? I thought pride would have a fall some day.”
<s>
      The north wind and the sun once fell into a dispute as to which was thestronger of the two. They related their most famous exploits, and eachended as he began, by thinking he had the greater power.
Just then a traveler came in sight, and they agreed to test the matterby trying to see which of them could soonest make the traveler removehis cloak.
The boastful North Wind was the first to try, the Sun meanwhilewatching behind a gray cloud. He blew a furious blast and nearly torethe cloak from its fastenings; but the Man only held his cloak moreclosely, and old Boreas spent his strength in vain.
Mortified by his failure to do so simple a thing, the Wind withdrew atlast in despair. “I don’t believe you can do it, either,” he said.
Then out came the kindly Sun in all his splendor, dispelling the cloudsthat had gathered and sending his warmest rays down upon the traveler’shead.
The Man looked up gratefully, but, growing faint with sudden heat, hequickly flung aside his cloak, and hastened for comfort to the nearestshade.
Persuasion is often better than force.
<s>
      Two men were traveling together, when a bear suddenly crossed theirpath.
One of the men climbed quickly into a tree, and tried to concealhimself in its branches.
Seeing that he must be attacked, the other one fell flat upon theground; and when the Bear came up, felt him with his snout, and smelthim all over, the man held his breath, feigning death.
The Bear soon left him, for it is said a Bear will not touch a deadbody.
When the Bear had gone, the man in the tree came down to join hiscompanion, and, as a pleasant joke, inquired, “What was it that theBear whispered in your ear when he bent over you for so long?”
His friend replied very gravely: “He gave me this bit of advice, ‘Nevertravel with a friend who deserts you at the approach of danger.’”
<s>
      Two goats started at the same moment, from opposite ends, to cross arude bridge that was only wide enough for one to cross at a time.
Meeting at the middle of the bridge, neither would yield to the other.They locked horns and fought for the right of way, until both fell intothe torrent below and were drowned.
<s>
      A bull was once striving with all his might to squeeze himself througha narrow passage which led to his stall.
“I will go through,” said a young Calf, “and show you the way. I havedone it many a time.”
“Save yourself the trouble,” said the Bull; “I knew the way before youwere born.”
<s>
      A young fawn once said to his mother: “i do not see, mother, how it isthat you should be so afraid of the dogs. You are larger than a dog,and swifter; and you are much more used to running. Why is it that themere mention of a hound puts you into such a terrible fright?”
The Mother smiled upon her brave young son. “I know very well,” shesaid, “that all you say is true. I look at my long legs, and rememberall the advantages that you mention, yet when I hear the bark of but asingle dog, I faint with terror.” 
<s>
      One very hot day a traveler hired a mule with his driver to carry somemerchandise to a distant place.
The way lay across a sandy plain, and the day being intensely hot, theTraveler called upon the driver to stop for rest. To escape from thedirect heat of the sun, which was shining in all its strength, theTraveler proceeded to sit down in the shadow of the Mule.
But a violent dispute arose, for the shadow was sufficient for but one,and the driver, a lusty fellow, rudely pushed the Traveler one side,claiming the spot for himself, saying: “When you hired this Mule of me,you said nothing about the shadow. If now you want that too, you mustpay for it.”
The discussion grew so violent that they forgot the Mule, who tookadvantage of his freedom and ran away. And so, in disputing about theshadow they lost the substance.
<s>
      A blind man, being stopped in a bad piece of road, met a lame man,and entreated him to help him out of the difficulty into which he hadfallen.
“How can I,” replied the Lame Man, “since I can scarcely drag myselfalong? I am lame, and you look very strong.”
“I am strong enough,” said the other. “I could go if I could but seethe way.”
“Oh, then we may help each other,” said the Lame Man. “If you will takeme on your shoulders, we will seek our fortunes together. I will beeyes for you, and you shall be feet for me.”
“With all my heart,” said the Blind Man. “Let us render each other ourmutual services.” So he took his lame companion upon his back, and theytraveled on with safety and pleasure.
<s>
      A river carried down, in its stream, two pots, one made of earthenwareand the other of Brass.
The Brass Pot was disposed to be social. “Since we must be companions,let us be friendly,” he said. “In union is strength. Though we arecarried away against our will, it is of no use to repine. We may yetsee much good.”
But the Earthen Pot said: “I beg you not to come so near me. I am asmuch afraid of you as of the river; for if you do but touch me ever soslightly, I shall be sure to break. To be really social and friendlypeople must have ways and needs in common.”
<s>
      There was once a frog who made proclamation that he was a learnedphysician, able to heal all diseases.
He went so far as to tell the beasts that it was their own fault thatthey were ill, since if they would but submit to his treatment, hewould restore them to perfect health.
A Fox, hearing it, asked: “How is it, since you can do such greatthings for others, you do not first try to mend your own ugly gait andyour wrinkled skin? They who assume to help others should first improvethemselves.”
<s>
      A wolf once clothed himself in the fleece of a sheep, and beingmistaken for one of the flock, got into the fold. He had a chance tomake way with as many sheep as he liked; but his time for doing sowas short, for the Shepherd, coming into the fold during the night,discovered him.
Tying him to a tree, he left him hanging there, still in his sheep’sdress, as a warning to other wolves who might be prowling about.
Some shepherds who chanced to pass by saw him there, and stopped toinquire why sheep should be thus served. As they came nearer and sawthat it was not a sheep but a Wolf, the Shepherd said, “This is the wayI serve a Wolf, even though I find him wearing the habit of a sheep.”
<s>
      A boy once thrust his hand into a pitcher nearly filled with filberts.He grasped as many as his hand could possibly hold; but when he triedto draw out his closed fist, the narrowness of the neck prevented himfrom doing so. Unwilling to lose his nuts, yet unable to get them bydrawing out his hand, he burst into tears and bitterly lamented hishard fortune. A person standing by finally gave him this wise andreasonable advice:
“Be satisfied to take half as many, my boy, and you will get themeasily.”
<s>
      A miser who had buried a lump of gold in the ground came to the spotevery day to look at it.
Finding one day that it had been stolen, he began to tear his hair andlament loudly.
A neighbor, seeing him, said: “Pray do not grieve so. Bury a stone inthe same hole and fancy it is the gold. It will serve you just as well,for when the gold was there you made no use of it.”
<s>
      A widow who had great reputation as a housekeeper, because she was sofond of cleaning, was waited upon by two little Maids.
She herself was wakened before dawn by the crowing of the cock, andwould rise at once and call her Maids.
The Maids, who had no taste for such excessive tidiness, and who werekept weary by such constant labor, held a spite against the poor cockfor rousing their mistress so early.
“If it were not for him,” they said, “the mistress would sleep till thesun is well up. Let us kill the cock, since there is no other way tostop his loud crowing.”
But the mistress, no longer hearing the cock, was unable to tell thetime, and so often woke her Maids in the middle of the night and setthem to work.
<s>
      A charcoal burner carried on his trade at his own house. one day he meta friend who was a Fuller, and begged him to come and live with him.
“We shall be far better friends if we live together,” he said, “andthen our housekeeping expenses will be greatly lessened.”
The Fuller replied: “The arrangement would not suit me in the least,for whatever I should take pains to whiten, your charcoal wouldimmediately blacken. I am afraid we should not grow better friendsunder such circumstances.”
<s>
      A prickly porcupine came wandering along one day, looking for a placeto live.
He found a family of Snakes in a warm cave, and asked them to let himshare their shelter.
The Snakes consented, though much against their will, and the Porcupinecrept into their home. But it was not long before they found that hissharp quills stuck into them and hurt them, and they wished they hadnever let him in.
“Dear Porcupine, please go away,” they said; “you are so large and soprickly.”
But the Porcupine was very rude, and said: “Oh, no. If you do not likeit here, you can go away. I find it very comfortable.”
It was too late that the Snakes learned that it is easier to keep anintruder out than to compel him to go when you have once let him in.
<s>
      An old man had many sons, who were often quarreling. he tried to makethem good friends, but could not. As the end of his life drew near, theold Man called them all to him and showed them a bundle of sticks tiedtightly together.
“Now,” said the Father, “see if you can break this bundle of sticks.”
Each of the Sons in turn took the bundle and tried with all his mightto break it, but could not. When all had tried and given it up, theFather said, “Untie the bundle, and each of you take a stick and seeif you can break that.” This they could do very easily. Then said theFather:
“You saw when the sticks were bound together how strong they were; butas soon as they were untied, you broke them easily. Now, if you willstop quarreling and stand by each other, you will be like the bundle ofsticks—no one can do you any harm; but if you do not keep together, youwill be as weak as is one of the little sticks by itself, which any onecan break.”
<s>
      There was once a dog who used to run at every one whom he met, but soquietly that no one suspected harm from him till he began to bite hisheels.
In order to give notice to strangers that the Dog could not be trusted,and at the same time to punish the Dog himself, the master wouldsometimes hang a bell about his neck and compel him to drag a heavyclog, which he firmly attached to his collar by a chain.
For a time the Dog hung his head; but seeing that his bell and clogbrought him into notice, he grew proud of them, and ran about themarket place to display them and attract attention to himself. He evenwent so far as to give himself airs with the other dogs, who had nosuch mark of distinction.
An old Hound, seeing it, said: “Why do you make such an exhibition ofyourself, as if your bell and clog were marks of merit? They do indeedbring you into notice; but when their meaning is understood, they aremarks of disgrace—a reminder that you are an ill-mannered cur. It isone thing to be renowned when our virtues give occasion for it; it isquite another to become notorious for our faults.”
<s>
      A dog, seeing an oyster, took it to be an egg and swallowed it. soonafter, suffering great pain, he said, “It was my greedy haste thatbrought me this torment.”
<s>
      The fox and the leopard once disputed who was the more beautiful. theLeopard exhibited, one by one, the various spots which covered hisskin. The Fox, who was even more proud of his wits than of his person,interrupted him at last by saying: “Yet when all is said, how much morebeautiful am I, who am decorated not simply in body but in mind. Theperson should be of more value than his coat.”
<s>
      Some dogs, famished with hunger, saw cowhides steeping in a river,close by a tannery, and thought they might be eaten. Not being able toreach them, they set to work first to drink up the river, but burstthemselves with drinking long before they reached the hides.
<s>
      A woodman came into a forest, and made a petition to the trees toprovide him a handle for his ax.
The Trees, honored by his civility, acceded to his request, and held aconsultation to decide which of them should be given him.
Without a dissenting voice, they chose the Ash, who, it seems, is not afavorite among the Trees. Some of them were bold enough to say that badluck went with the Ash, and that at heart they were not bound to be insympathy with woodcutters.
The Woodman cut down the Tree, and fitted the handle to his ax; then tothe dismay of the Trees, set to work and, with strong strokes, quicklyfelled all the noblest giants of the forest.
Lamenting too late the fate of his companions, an old Oak remarked to aneighboring Cedar:
“The first step has lost us all. If we had not so willingly given upthe rights of the Ash, we might have stood for ages.”
<s>
      Dolly the milkmaid having been a good girl and careful in her work, hermistress gave her a pail of new milk for herself.
With the pail upon her head, Dolly tripped gayly along on her way tothe town, whither she was going to sell her milk.
“For this milk,” said Dolly, “I shall get a shilling, and with it Iwill buy twenty of the eggs laid by our neighbor’s fine fowls. Themistress will surely lend me a hen, and, allowing for all mishaps, Ishall raise a good dozen of chicks. They will be well grown before thenext fair-time comes around, and it is then that chickens bring thehighest price. I shall be able to sell mine for a guinea.
“Then I shall buy that jacket that I saw in the village the other day,and a hat and ribbons too. And when I go to the fair, how smart I shallbe!
“Robin will be there, and will come up and offer to be friends again.But I won’t make up too easily; and when he wants me for a partner inthe dance, I shall just toss up my head and—”
Here Dolly gave her head the least bit of a toss, when down came thepail, and all the milk was spilled upon the ground.
Poor Dolly! it was her good-by to eggs, chickens, jacket, hat, ribbons,and all.
<s>
      The cat and the fox were once talking together in the middle of theforest.
“I do not care what happens,” said the Fox, “for I have a thousandtricks, any one of which would get me out of difficulty. But pray, Mrs.Puss,” he added, “what would you do if there should be an invasion?”
“I have but one course,” Puss replied. “If that would not serve me, Ishould be undone.”
“I am sorry for you,” said the Fox. “I would gladly teach you one ortwo of my tricks, but it is not wise to trust another. We must eachtake care for himself.”
These words were hardly spoken, when a pack of hounds came upon them infull cry.
The Cat, by means of her one well-proved safeguard, ran up a tree andsat serenely among the branches. “This is my way,” she said to the Fox.“What is yours to be?”
The Fox, with all his thousand tricks, was not able to get out ofsight, and fell a prey to the dogs.
<s>
      A monkey and a cat lived in the same family, and it was hard to tellwhich was the greater thief.
One day, as they were roaming together, they spied some chestnutsroasting in the ashes of a fire.
“Come,” said the cunning Monkey, “we shall not go dinnerless to-day.Your claws are better than mine for the purpose; pull the chestnuts outof the ashes and you shall have half.”
Puss pulled them out, burning her paws very much in doing so. When shehad stolen every one, she turned to the Monkey for her share of thebooty; but, to her chagrin, she could find no chestnuts, for he hadeaten them all.
<s>
      For a long time the wolf had followed the sheep without attempting toinjure one of them.
The Shepherd stood on his guard against him for a while, and keptstrict watch that he did not come too near. But as day after day passedand the Wolf showed no disposition to injure any of the flock, heallowed him to approach nearer, till at last he came among the Sheep,and seemed to watch over them like a dog.
“He is really quite a help to me,” said the Shepherd to himself; “andI have never seen him make the slightest effort to seize a sheep or alamb.”
So, having occasion to go to town one day, he left his flock in thecare of the Wolf, whom he regarded as a guardian over them.
But no sooner was the man gone, than the Wolf, seeing his opportunity,fell upon the Sheep and destroyed the greater part of them.
“I have been rightly served,” said the Shepherd, on his return. “Whydid I not know better than to trust my Sheep to their worst enemy? Soonor late, nature will show itself.”
<s>
      A wolf accused of theft a fox, who utterly denied the charge, whereuponan Ape undertook to adjudge the matter in question.
When each had fully stated his case, the Ape pronounced this sentence:
“I am fully satisfied that you, Wolf, never lost what you claim.” Thenturning to the Fox, he said, “And I believe you to have done that whichyou so stoutly deny.”
<s>
      A blind man was accustomed to distinguish different animals by touchingthem with his hands.
The whelp of a wolf was brought him, with the request that he shouldfeel it and tell what it was.
Being in doubt, he said, “I do not quite know whether it is the cub ofa fox or the whelp of a wolf; but this I know full well, that it wouldnot be safe to admit it to the sheepfold.”
<s>
      A young man who had been a great spendthrift, and had run throughall the money he had inherited, and even sold all his outer clothingexcept his cloak, saw a Swallow skimming over the meadows in the earlyspringtime and twittering gayly. Believing that summer was really come,he sold his cloak also.
The next day there happened to be a severe frost, and, shiveringhimself, he found the Swallow lying frozen and stiff upon the ground.
“Unhappy bird,” he said, “had you not come before your time, I shouldnot now be so wretched, and you might have escaped your fate. A singleswallow does not make a summer.”
<s>
      A boar stood whetting his tusks against a tree.
“What do you mean,” asked a Fox, “by such warlike preparation? There isno enemy in sight.”
“When the enemy is in sight,” said the Boar, “it is time to think ofsomething else.”
<s>
      As a wagoner drove his wagon through a miry lane, the wheels stuck fastin the clay, so that the horses could proceed no further.
The Man, without making the least effort to remedy the matter, fellupon his knees and began to call upon Hercules to come and help himout of his trouble.
“Lazy fellow,” said Hercules, “lay your own shoulder to the wheel. Stiryourself and do what you can. Then, if you want aid from the gods,you shall have it. Remember the proverb, Heaven helps those who helpthemselves.”
<s>
      Two mules, laden with packs, were trudging along the highway. onecarried panniers filled with money, the other sacks of grain.
The Mule that carried the treasure walked with head erect and statelystep, jingling the bells about his neck as he went.
His companion followed at a quiet, easy pace.
Suddenly a band of Robbers sprang upon them, attracted by the strong,proud step and the jingling bells. The Mule that carried the gold madeso great an ado that the Robbers seized his pack, wounding him withtheir weapons, and, hearing footsteps, fled.
“I am glad,” said the other, “that I was thought of so littleconsequence, for I have lost nothing, nor am I hurt with any wound.”
<s>
      The swallow and the crow were once contending about their plumage.The Crow finally put an end to the dispute by saying, “Your feathersare well enough now while it is warm, but mine protect me against thewinter.”
<s>
      A bee made jupiter a present of a pot of honey, which was so kindlytaken that he bade her ask what she would in exchange.
The Bee, who was nursing a private spite for the loss of some of herwinter’s store, desired of Jupiter that wherever she should set hersting it might be mortal.
Jupiter was loath to leave mankind at the mercy of a little spitefulinsect, and was annoyed at the ill nature shown in her wish. He said,therefore, that while, for his promise’s sake, he would give her thepower to harm, she must be careful how she used the power, for whereshe planted her sting, she would leave it, and would thereby risk herown life.
Ill will often does greater harm to the one who acts from it than tothe one on whom it falls.
<s>
      As two men were traveling through a wood, one of them took up anax which he saw lying upon the ground. “Look here,” said he to hiscompanion; “I have found an ax.”
“Don’t say _I_ have found it,” said the other, “but _we_. As we arecompanions, we ought to share it between us.”
“No,” said the first, “I found the ax. It is mine.”
They had not gone far when they heard the owner of the ax pursuingthem, and calling out to them in great passion.
“We are in for it now,” said he who had the ax.
“Nay,” said the other; “say _I_ am in for it, not _we_. When youthought you had a prize, you would not let me share it with you, andnow you cannot expect me to share in the danger.”
<s>
      A kid, mounted on a high rock where she felt safe, bestowed all mannerof abuse upon a Wolf on the ground below.
The Wolf replied: “Do not think, silly little creature, that you canannoy me. This ill language that you are using I regard as coming, notfrom you, but from the safe place on which you stand. You would be in adifferent mood if you were down here by my side.”
<s>
      A gourd was once planted close beside a large and noble pine tree.The season was kindly, and the Gourd shot itself up in a short time,climbing by the boughs and twining about them, till it covered andovertopped the Tree itself.
The leaves were so large and the flowers and fruit so fair that theGourd, comparing them with the slender needles of the Pine, had theassurance to think itself of greater value in the comparison.
“Why,” said the Gourd, “you have been more years in growing to thisstature than I have been days.”
“That is true,” said the Pine; “but after the many winters and summersthat I have endured, the many blasting colds and parching heats, yousee me the very same that I was long years ago. Nothing has overcomeme. But when your race is put to the proof, the first blight or frostis sure to bring down that pride of yours. In an hour you are strippedof all your glory.”
<s>
      A hound, having started a hare which proved to be a capital runner, atlength gave up the chase. His master, seeing it, said, “The little oneis the best runner, eh?”
“Ah, Master,” answered the Dog, “it’s all very well to laugh; but youdo not see the difference between us. He was running for his life,while I was only running for my dinner.”
<s>
      An owl, who was sitting in a hollow tree, dozing away a long summerafternoon, was much disturbed by a rogue of a Grasshopper, singing inthe grass below.
So far from moving away at the request of the Owl, or keeping quiet,the Grasshopper sang all the more, saying that honest people got theirsleep at night.
The Owl waited in silence for a while, and then artfully addressed theGrasshopper thus: “I suppose I ought to be angry with you, my dear,for I confess I would rather sleep than listen to your singing. But ifone cannot be allowed to sleep, it is something to be kept awake bysuch a pleasant little pipe as yours. And now it occurs to me that Ihave some delicious nectar with which to reward a musician who singsso sweetly. If you will take the trouble to come up, you shall have adrop. It will clear your voice nicely.”
The silly Grasshopper came hopping up to the Owl, who at once caughtand killed him, and so finished her nap in comfort.
<s>
      A mule, laden with choice provision of several sorts, was on his wayto the field. His master and the reapers were at work there, and theprovision that he carried was for the refreshment of both man and beast.
Seeing a large, strong thistle by the roadside, he stopped to eat it.“Many people would wonder,” thought he, “that, with such dainty foodupon my back, I should have appetite for the despised thistle; but tome the bitter, prickly weed has a more savory relish than anythingelse in the world. Let others choose what they will, but give me afine, juicy thistle like this, and I shall be content. Every one to histaste. It is wisely ordered that what one rejects should be the choiceof another. A wise man has said that a weed is a plant that people havenot yet found a use for.”
<s>
      A stag, whose joints had become stiff with age, was at great painsto gather an abundant supply of food—enough, as he thought, for theremainder of his days.
He stretched himself beside it, in a quiet, sunny corner of hispasture, and now dozing, now nibbling, was passing a happy old age.
He had been a favorite among his companions, and they now came often,and in great numbers, to call upon him and wish him good luck. He madethem welcome in a hospitable manner, and each, as often as he came,helped himself to a little of the food so abundantly provided.
The end of the matter was, that the poor Stag died, not so much fromeither sickness or old age as from want of the food which his friendshad eaten for him. Before doing a thing, it is well sometimes toconsider, “What if every one should do it?”
<s>
      A wolf, passing by, saw some shepherds in a hut, eating for theirdinner a haunch of mutton. Approaching them, he said: “Ah! gentlemen,you are feasting on mutton. I like your taste. But what a hue and cryyou would raise if _I_ were to do it.”
<s>
      A boy was once stung by a nettle. crying with pain, he ran home andtold his mother, saying, “Although it pains me so much, I did but touchit ever so gently, for I had been hurt by it before.”
“That was just it,” said his mother. “It was that which gave you sobad a sting. The next time you have occasion to touch a Nettle, graspit boldly, with courage and resolution. It will be as soft as silk inyour hand and will not hurt you in the least. And you will meet manypersons, as well as things, that must be handled in the same way, ifyou would escape discomfort from them.”
<s>
      The hares waged war with the eagles and called upon the foxes to helpthem.
The Foxes replied: “We would willingly have helped you, if we had notknown so well who you were and with whom you were fighting. Before wecan commit ourselves, we must count the cost.”
<s>
      A woodman, felling a tree by the side of a river, let his ax drop byaccident into the stream.
Being thus suddenly deprived of the tool by means of which he gainedhis livelihood, he sat down upon the bank and lamented his hard fate.
To his surprise Mercury appeared and asked him what was the matter.Having heard the story of the man’s misfortune, he dived to the bottomof the river, and bringing up a golden ax, inquired if that was the onehe had lost.
On his saying that it was not his, Mercury dived a second time, andreturning with a silver ax in his hand, again demanded of the Woodmanif it was his.
This also the Woodman refused, saying that it was none of his. Mercurydisappeared a third time and brought up the ax that the man had lost.This the poor man took with joy and thankfulness.
So pleased was Mercury with the honesty of the man, that he gave himthe other two axes in addition to his own.
The Woodman, on his return home, related to his companions all that hadhappened. One of them resolved to see if he could secure the same goodfortune to himself.
He ran to the river and threw his ax in, then sat down upon the bank tolament his sad fate.
Mercury appeared as before and demanded to know the cause of his grief.After hearing the man’s account, he dived and brought up a golden axand asked the man if that was his.
Transported at the sight of the precious metal, the fellow eagerlyanswered that it was, and greedily attempted to snatch it. The god,detecting his falsehood and greed, not only declined to give him thegolden ax but refused to recover for him his own.
<s>
      A rat, traveling on the highway, met a huge elephant, bearing his royalmaster and the master’s favorite dog, cat, parrot, and monkey. Behindthem came a retinue of servants and many courtiers.
An admiring crowd followed the great beast and his attendants, so thatthe entire road was filled.
“How foolish you are,” said the Rat to the people, “to make such a fussat seeing an elephant. Is it his great bulk that you so much admire?Mere size is nothing. At most it can only frighten little girls andboys, and I can do that as well. I am a beast as well as he. I have asmany legs, and ears, and eyes. If you will take the trouble to compareus, you will see that I have finer parts. What right, then, has he totake up all the highway, which belongs to me as well as to him?”
At this moment, the Cat from her high place spied the Rat. She jumpedto the ground and soon convinced him that he was not an Elephant.
<s>
      A husbandman pitched a net in his fields, to take the cranes and wildgeese that came daily to feed upon the newly sown corn.
In this net he captured several cranes and geese, and among them, onone occasion, was a Stork. The cranes and geese accepted their lot asone of the chances to which such lives as theirs were subject; but theStork was in very sad case and pleaded hard for his life.
Among other reasons why he should not be put to death, the Stork urgedthat he was neither goose nor crane but a poor, harmless Stork, whoperformed his duty to his parents as well as ever he could, feedingthem when they were old, and carrying them, when required, from placeto place upon his back.
“All this may be true,” replied the Husbandman; “but, as I have takenyou in bad company, and in the same crime, you must expect to sufferthe same punishment.”
<s>
      A satyr, ranging in the forest in winter, once came across a travelerwho was half starved and nearly frozen.
He took pity upon him and invited him to come to his cave for food andshelter.
On their way, the Man kept blowing upon his fingers. “Why do you dothat?” said the Satyr, who had seen but little of the world of men.
“To warm my hands,” replied the Man; “they are nearly frozen.”
Arriving at the cave, the Satyr poured out a smoking mess of pottageand set it before the Traveler, who eagerly seized it and began to blowupon it with all his might.
“What, blowing again!” exclaimed the Satyr. “Is it not hot enough?”
“It is, indeed,” answered the Man; “that is the very reason why I amblowing it. I want to cool it enough to be able to eat it.”
Upon this the Satyr exclaimed in alarm, “Be off with you! I will haveno part with a Man who can blow hot and cold from the same mouth.”
<s>
      A stag, one hot day, came to drink from a clear lake, and stopped tolook at his own image in the water.
“How beautiful are my fine spreading horns!” said he. “How strong andgraceful they are, branching from each side of my head! What a pity itis that my legs should be so thin and ugly!”
Just at this moment a lion came crashing through the forest and madeready to spring upon him. Away went the stag! and the legs that he haddespised would soon have carried him out of danger; but when he came tothe thick woods, his beautiful antlers, of which he had been so vain,caught in the branches and held him fast until the lion came up andseized him.
<s>
      A peasant had in his garden an apple tree which for year after yearhad borne no fruit, but served only as a harbor for sparrows andgrasshoppers.
Seeing no good to himself in the tree, he resolved to cut it down, and,taking his ax in his hand, he made a bold stroke at its roots.
Each in his own way, the grasshoppers and sparrows entreated him notto cut down the tree that sheltered them. “We will do our best to makeup to you the worth of the wood, if you will spare it,” they said,“lightening your labor by our cheering songs.” But he paid no heed tothem and gave a second and a third blow with his ax.
When he reached the hollow of the tree, he found a hive full of honey.He tasted the honeycomb and at once threw down his ax. From that timethe greatest of care was taken of the tree, and the sparrows andgrasshoppers still found shelter in it. They could not forget, however,that the man had only saved their home for them from self-interest.
<s>
      According to an old legend, the first man was made by jupiter, thefirst bull by Neptune, and the first house by Minerva.
On the completion of their labors, a dispute arose as to which had madethe most perfect work.
They agreed to rest the decision with Momus, a judge, and to abide byhis word.
Momus, however, being very envious of the handicraft of each, foundfault in turn with all.
He criticized the work of Neptune because he had not made the hornsof the bull below the eyes, that the animal might better see where tostrike.
He condemned the work of Jupiter because he had not placed the heart ofman on the outside, so that every one might read the thoughts of theevil-disposed and take precautions against intended mischief.
And last of all, he inveighed against Minerva, not because of any faultin the house itself but because she had not contrived iron wheels inits foundation, so that its inhabitants might more easily remove if aneighbor proved unpleasant.
Indignant at such inveterate fault-finding, Jupiter drove Momus fromhis office as judge and expelled him from the mansions of Olympus.
<s>
      A rushlight, in love with its own brilliancy, once boasted that itslight was brighter even than that of the sun, the moon, and the stars.
Just then a door opened, and a puff of wind blew it out.
As the owner relighted it, he said: “Cease now your boasting. Becontent to shine in silence. Heavenly lights do not blow out. Know thatnot even the stars need to be relit.”
<s>
      A groom, who used to steal a horse’s corn and sell it, was yet verybusy all the day long in grooming and wisping him. “If you really wishme,” said the Horse, “to look sleek and fine, give me less currying andmore corn.”
<s>
      A trumpeter who had been taken prisoner in a battle begged hard forhis life. “Spare me, I entreat you,” said he; “put me not to deathwithout cause. I have killed no one, nor do I carry arms, but only thistrumpet.”
“For that very reason,” said they who held him captive, “you shall themore surely die; for though without the spirit to fight yourself, youstir up others to violence and bloodshed.”
He who incites to strife is worse than he who takes part in it.
<s>
      A man who had traveled in foreign parts bragged, on his return home,of the great feats he had performed in different places. In Rhodes,for instance, he had taken so extraordinary a leap that no man couldapproach it; and, he said, he had witnesses there to prove that it wasso.
“It is quite possible,” said one who heard him boasting of it, “butjust suppose this to be Rhodes, and try the leap again.”
<s>
      A foolish young heir, who had come into possession of his wise father’sestate, broke up all the Hedges about his Vineyard because they boreno grapes. The throwing down of these fences laid his grounds opento man and beast, and his vines were presently destroyed. The simplefellow learned, when it was too late, that it was quite as necessary toprotect his Vineyard as to possess it.
<s>
      A little starveling mouse had made his way with some difficulty into abasket of corn, where, finding the entertainment much to his liking, hestuffed and crammed himself to such an extent that when he was readyto get out again, he found the hole by which he had entered too smallto allow his puffed-out body to pass through. A Weasel, who was drawnto the spot by his cries, thus counseled him: “Stay where you are, myfriend, and fast till you are thin; for you will never come out tillyou reduce yourself to the same condition as when you went in.”
<s>
      A wolf, that had been bitten by a dog and was unable to move, begged aSheep that passed by to take pity on his sad case and fetch him somewater from a stream. “If you will bring me a drink,” said he, “I willfind meat myself.”
“Yes,” said the Sheep, “I make no doubt of it; for if I come nearenough to give you the drink, you will make mincemeat of _me_.”
<s>
      A certain widow, who had only a single sheep and wished to make themost of his wool, sheared him so closely as to cut his skin as wellas his fleece. The Sheep, smarting under this treatment, cried out:“Why do you torture me thus? It is no gain to yourself. My blood willnot add to the weight of the wool. If you are after flesh send forthe Butcher, who will end my misery; but if it is only wool that youwant, send for the Shearer, who will clip my fleece without drawing myblood.”
<s>
      A man and a lion were once journeying together and came at length tohigh words as to which was the braver and stronger creature of the two.As the dispute waxed warmer they happened to pass, on the roadside, thestatue of a man strangling a lion. “See there,” said the Man. “Whatmore proof can you have of our undeniable superiority than that?”
“That,” said the Lion, “is a man’s version of the story; let us be thesculptors, and for one lion under the feet of a man, you shall havetwenty men under the paws of lions.”
<s>
      A great stir was once made as to which of the beasts could boast of thelargest family. They came in turn to the Lioness. “And how many,” wasasked, “do you have at a birth?”
“One,” she replied; “but that one is a Lion!”
Quality is before quantity.
<s>
      An old man once found a rude boy in his apple tree and sternly orderedhim to come down. The young rogue answered that he would not.
“Then I will fetch you down,” said the Old Man. So he threw twigs andbundles of grass up at him, but this only made the young scapegracelaugh.
“Very well,” said the Old Man. “If neither words nor grass will bringyou down, I will try what virtue there is in stones.” With that hepelted the Boy heartily with stones, which soon brought him down fromthe tree to beg the Old Man’s pardon.
<s>
      A certain man had the good fortune to possess a goose which laid him aGolden Egg each day of the year. For a while the man rejoiced in hisdaily gain, but becoming impatient with so slow an income, he killedthe Goose, to get all at once the gold which he thought was insideher. When he had laid her open, he found that she was exactly like allother geese.
Wanting more, he lost all.
<s>
      An old laborer, bent with age and toil, was gathering brush in aforest. Growing tired and hopeless, he threw down his bundle and criedout: “I can bear this no longer! If only Death would come and relieveme!”
As he spoke Death came and asked him what it was that he wanted. “Pray,good sir,” replied the Man, “do me but the favor to lift this bundle ofsticks to my back.”
<s>
      A man who had two daughters married one to a gardener, the other to aPotter. Going to visit at the Gardener’s, he asked his Daughter how itfared with her. “Excellently well,” said she; “we have all that we wantif only we may have a heavy rain to water our plants.”
Going on to the Potter’s, he asked his other Daughter how matters wentwith her. “There is nothing that we want but that this fine weather andhot sun may continue, so that our tiles will bake well.”
“Alas,” said the Father, “if you wish for fine weather, and your sisterfor rain, which shall I myself pray for?”
<s>
      A lion who was too old and feeble to hunt for prey saw that he mustget it, if at all, by cunning. He crept into a corner of his den andfeigned sickness. All the animals that came by went in to take a lookat him, and, as they came, he sprang upon them and ate them up. Now,when this had happened to a good many, the Fox, who had guessed thetrick, came by. From a safe distance he called to the Lion, asking howhe did. The Lion said he was very sick and asked the Fox to come in andsee him. “So I would, gladly,” replied the Fox, “but I notice that allthe footprints point into the den, and there are none pointing out.”
<s>
      In days of old, a mighty rumbling was heard in a mountain. it was saidto be in Labor, and multitudes of people flocked together, from nearand from far, to see what the great Mountain would produce. After longexpectation and wise conjecturing from the bystanders, out popped—amouse.
A magnificent promise, but a paltry performance.
<s>
      The camel, in days of yore, besought jupiter to grant him horns,because it was a great grief to him to see other animals furnished withwhat he had not. Jupiter not only refused him horns but cropped hisears short for his foolish importunity.
By asking for what we do not need, we may lose what we already have.
<s>
      The moon once asked her mother to make her a little coat that wouldfit her well. “How,” replied the Mother, “can I make a cloak to fityou, when now you are a New Moon, and then a Full Moon, and then againneither the one nor the other?”
<s>
      A horse once had the whole range of a meadow to himself; but when aStag came and threatened to damage the pasture, the Horse asked a Manto assist him in ridding him of the Stag. “I will,” said the Man, “ifyou will let me put a bit in your mouth and get upon your back so asto go and find weapons.” The Horse consented, and the Man accordinglymounted. But instead of being revenged on the Stag, the Horse has beenfrom that time the slave of Man.
Revenge is dearly punished at the price of liberty.
<s>
          old rodiland, a certain cat,    Such havoc of the Rats had made    ’Twas difficult to find a Rat    With nature’s debt unpaid.    The few that did remain,    To leave their holes afraid,    From usual food abstain,    Not eating half their fill.    And wonder no one will    That one who made on Rats his revel,    With Rats passed not for Cat, but devil.
    Now, on a day, this dread rat-eater,    Who had a wife, went out to meet her.    And while he held his caterwauling,    The unkilled Rats, their chapter calling,    Discussed the point, in grave debate,    How they might shun impending fate.    Their dean, a prudent Rat,    Thought best, and better soon than late,    To bell the fatal Cat;    That, when he took his hunting round,    The Rats, well cautioned by the sound,    Might hide in safety under ground.    Indeed, he knew no other means;        And all the rest        At once confessed    Their minds were with the dean’s.    No better plan, they all believed,    Could possibly have been conceived.    No doubt the thing would work right well    If any one would hang the bell.    But one by one said every Rat,    “I’m not so big a fool as that.”    The plan knocked up in this respect,    The council closed without effect.    And many a council I have seen,    Or reverend chapter, with its dean,    That, thus resolving wisely,    Fell through like this, precisely.
            To argue or refute,              Wise councilors abound.            The man to execute              Is harder to be found.
<s>
      A great cloud passed rapidly over a country which was parched by heat,but did not let fall a single drop to refresh it. Presently it pouredcopious streams of rain into the sea and, when it had done so, began toboast of its generosity in the hearing of the neighboring Mountain.
But the Mountain replied: “What good have you done by such generosity?and how can any one help being pained at the sight of it? If youhad poured your showers over the land, you might have saved a wholedistrict from famine. But as to the sea, my friend, it has plenty ofwater already, without additions from you.”
<s>
      Once upon a time the elephant stood high in the good graces of theLion. The forest immediately began to talk of the matter, and, asusual, many guesses were made as to the means by which the Elephant hadgained such favor.
“It is no beauty,” say the beasts to each other, “and it is notamusing; and what habits it has! what manners!”
“If it had possessed such a bushy tail as mine, I should not havewondered,” says the Fox.
“Or, sister,” says the Bear, “if it had gotten into favor on account ofits claws, no one would have found the matter at all extraordinary; butit has no claws at all, as we all know well.”
“Isn’t it its tusks that have gotten it into favor?” thus the Ox brokein upon their conversation. “Haven’t they, perhaps, been mistaken forhorns?”
Then said the Ass, shaking its ears, “Is it possible that you don’tknow how it has succeeded in making itself liked, and in becomingdistinguished. Why, I have guessed the reason. If it hadn’t beenremarkable for its long ears, it would never in the world have gotteninto favor.”
<s>
      The eagle promoted the cuckoo to the rank of a nightingale, and atonce, proud of its new position, the Cuckoo seated itself upon an aspenand began to exercise its musical talents.
After a time it looked around. All the other birds were flying away,some laughing and others abusing it. The Cuckoo grew angry, andhastened to the Eagle with a complaint against the birds.
“Have pity on me!” it begged. “I have been appointed Nightingale tothese woods, and yet the birds dare laugh at my singing.”
“My friend,” answered the Eagle, “I am a king, but I am not a god. Itis impossible for me to remedy the cause of your complaint. I can ordera Cuckoo to be styled a Nightingale, but to make a Nightingale out of aCuckoo—that I cannot do.” 
<s>
      Very early one winter morning, during a hard frost, a fox was drinkingat a hole in the ice not far from the haunts of men.
Meanwhile, whether by accident or from negligence does not matter, theend of its tail got wet and froze to the ice.
No great harm was done; the Fox could easily remedy it. It had only togive a tolerably hard pull and leave about a score of hairs behind;then it could run home quickly before any one came.
But how could it make up its mind to spoil its tail? Such a bushy tailas it was—so ample, so golden! No; better wait a little. Surely men aresleeping still. It is even possible that a thaw may set in meanwhile.In that case it will be able to withdraw its tail easily from the icehole.
So it waits; it goes on waiting, but its tail only freezes all themore. The Fox looks round; the day is already beginning to dawn.People are stirring; voices are to be heard. Our poor Fox begins tomove wildly about, now this way and now that. But still it cannot freeitself from the hole.
Luckily, a Wolf comes running that way.
“Dear friend! father!” cries the Fox; “do save me; I am all but lost!”
So the Wolf stopped and set to work to rescue the Fox. Its method was asimple one—it bit the tail clean off.
So our foolish friend went home tailless, but rejoicing that its skinwas still on its back.
<s>
      “good day, dear friend; where do you come from?”
“From the Museum, where I have spent three hours. I saw everything theyhave there, and examined it carefully. So much have I seen to astonishme that, if you will believe me, I am neither strong nor clever enoughto give you the description of it. Upon my word, it is a palace ofwonders.
“How rich is Nature in inventions! What birds and beasts have Inot seen there! What flies, butterflies, cockroaches, and curiousbeetles—some like emeralds, others like corals! And what tiny cochinealinsects! Why, really, some of them are smaller than a pin’s head.”
“But did you see the elephant? What did you think of it? I’ll be boundyou felt as if you were at a mountain.”
“The elephant? Are you quite sure it is there?”
“Quite sure.”
“Well, brother, you mustn’t be too hard on me; but to tell the truth, Ididn’t remark the elephant.”
<s>
      A squirrel once served a lion—i know not where or in what capacity. butthis much is certain—the Squirrel found favor in the Lion’s eyes, andto satisfy the Lion is certainly no light affair.
In return for this he was promised a whole wagonload of nuts.
Promised—yes; but meanwhile time continues to fly by. The Squirreloften suffers hunger and, while grinning in his masters presence, haseyes full of tears.
When he looks around in the forest, his former comrades show themselveshere and there, high up among the trees. He looks at them till his eyesbegin to blink, but they keep on cracking nuts.
The Squirrel takes a look at them—he can do no more. At one time he iscalled away; at another, even dragged off in the Lion’s service.
But see! At last the Squirrel has grown old and become tiresome to theLion. It is time for him to retire. They have granted the Squirrelhis discharge, and they have actually given him the full load ofnuts—excellent nuts, such as the world has never seen before; allpicked fruit, one as good as another, a perfect marvel. Only one thingis unlucky—the Squirrel has long ago lost all his teeth.
<s>
      A wolf ran out of the forest into a village—not to pay a visit, but tosave its life; for it trembled for its skin.
The huntsman and a pack of hounds were after it.
It would fain have rushed in through the first gateway, but there wasthis unfortunate circumstance in the way—all the gateways were closed.
The Wolf saw a Cat on a partition fence and said pleadingly: “Vaska, myfriend, tell me quickly, which of the moujiks here is the kindest, sothat I may hide myself from my evil foes. Listen to the cry of the dogsand the terrible sound of the horns. All that noise is actually made inchase of me.”
“Go quickly and ask Stefan,” said Vaska, the Cat; “he is a very kindman.”
“Quite true; only I have torn the skin off one of his sheep.”
“Well, then, try Demian.”
“I’m afraid he’s angry with me, too; I carried off one of his kids.”
“Run over there, then; Trofim lives there.”
“Trofim! I should be afraid of even meeting him. Ever since the springhe has been threatening me about a lamb.”
“Dear me, that’s bad! But perhaps Klim will protect you.”
“Oh, Vaska, I have killed one of his calves!”
“What do I hear, friend? You’ve quarreled with all the village,” saidVaska to the Wolf. “What sort of protection can you hope for here? No,no; our peasants are not so destitute of sense as to be willing to saveyou to their own hurt. And, really, you have only yourself to blame.What you have sown, that you must now reap.”
<s>
      A wolf and a lamb came to a running brook to quench their thirst. theWolf stood high up the stream and the Lamb a little distance below.Having made up his mind to seize the Lamb, the Wolf bethought himselfhow he might justify his act of violence. Running down to her, heroared, “How dare you muddle the water so that I cannot drink it?”
The Lamb, affrighted by the charge, humbly replied that she could notsee how that could be, since the water ran down from him to her and notfrom her to him. “Be that as it may,” retorted the Wolf. “You are arascal, all the same, and I have heard that you said bad things of melast year behind my back.”
“Nay,” said the Lamb, “that could not have been, for a year ago I wasnot born.”
“Well, if it was not you it was your father, and that is all the same,”replied the Wolf, and he fell upon the Lamb and tore her to pieces.
<s>
      The first time the fox saw the lion, he was ready to die of fear. thesecond time he took courage and could even bear to look upon him. Thethird time he had the impudence to come up to him, to salute him, andto enter into familiar conversation with him.
<s>
      A dog had stolen a piece of meat out of a butcher’s shop and wascrossing a river on his way home, when he saw his own shadow reflectedin the stream below. Thinking it was another dog with another piece ofmeat, he resolved to secure it. He snapped at his supposed treasure,but in doing so dropped the piece he was carrying and so lost all.
<s>
      Said an old crab to a young one, “why do you walk so crooked, child?Walk straight!” “Mother,” said the young Crab, “show me the way, willyou? When I see you taking a straight course, I will try and follow.”
Example is better than precept.
<s>
      A fox came at vintage time to a place where ripe grapes were hangingin tempting clusters over the branch of a tree. “I will get them,”said the Fox. He made many a spring and jump, but failing each time tosecure the prize, he at length walked away, muttering, “Well, what doesit matter? The grapes are sour.”
<s>
      A wolf had a bone in his throat and ran up and down in the greatestagony, begging every animal he met to relieve him, hinting at thesame time that there would be a substantial reward. A Crane, movedby his entreaties, ventured her long neck down the Wolf’s throat anddrew forth the bone. When she had done it, she modestly asked for thepromised reward. To which the Wolf, grinning and showing his teeth,replied, “Ungrateful creature, is it not enough that you have had yourhead in a Wolf’s mouth and brought it out safe?”
<s>
      A colony of ants were busily employed in the care and preservation oftheir food, which they exposed to the air in heaps around their countryhabitation.
A Grasshopper, who had chanced to out-live the summer and was ready todie from cold and hunger, approached with great humility and beggedthat they would relieve his necessity with one grain of wheat or rye.One of the Ants asked him how he had disposed of his time in thesummer, that he had not taken pains and laid in a stock as they haddone.
“Alas! gentlemen,” said he, “I passed away the time merrily andpleasantly in drinking, singing, and dancing, and never once thought ofwinter.”
“If that be the case,” replied the Ant, “all I have to say is that theywho drink, sing, and dance in summer must starve in winter.”
<s>
      The commonwealth of frogs, a discontented race, weary of liberty andfond of change, petitioned Jupiter to grant them a King.
The good-natured deity, in order to grant their request with as littlemischief to them as possible, threw them down a Log. The splash sentthem into the greatest terror and amazement, and at first they regardedtheir new monarch with great reverence and kept at a respectfuldistance. But by degrees, perceiving his amiable and peaceabledisposition, they gradually ventured to approach him with morefamiliarity, till at length they conceived for him the utmost contempt.
Dissatisfied with this state of things, they renewed their request toJupiter and entreated him to bestow upon them another King.
In his wrath the Thunderer sent them a Crane, who no sooner tookpossession of his new dominion than he began to devour his subjects,one after another.
They were now far more dissatisfied than before. Applying to Jupitera third time, they were dismissed with the reproof that the evil ofwhich they complained they had imprudently brought upon themselves; andthat now they had no other remedy but to submit to it with patience.
<s>
      A donkey, having put on the skin of a lion, which he found drying bythe roadside, roamed about the forest and amused himself by frighteningall the animals that he met. At length, meeting a Fox, he tried tofrighten him also; but the Fox no sooner heard the sound of his voicethan he exclaimed, “I might possibly have been frightened if I had notheard you bray.”
<s>
      The mice, being sadly distressed on account of their common enemy theCat, called a council to devise means of ridding themselves of theannoyance. Many plans were proposed and rejected, till at last it wassuggested by a young Mouse that a bell should be hung round the Cat’sneck, that having notice of her coming, they might escape to theirholes.
The proposal was hailed with applause and agreed to unanimously.Whereupon an old Mouse, who had sat in silence, got up and said, “Thatis well, but who will bell the Cat?” The Mice looked one at another,but no one answered.
The old Mouse said, “It is easy to advise; what is wanted is some oneto act.”
<s>
      A kid, coming alone from its pasture, was pursued by a wolf. with greatpresence of mind the kid turned and said: “I know, Friend Wolf, thatyou mean to kill me; but as my life is to be short, let it be a merryone. Do you pipe and let me have one more dance before I die.” Whilethe Wolf was piping and the Kid was dancing, some Dogs, hearing themusic, ran to the place to see what was going on; and the Wolf was gladto take himself off as fast as his legs would carry him.
<s>
      The nightingale, sitting aloft upon an oak, was seen by a hawk, whoswooped down and seized her. The Nightingale earnestly prayed the Hawkto let her go, saying that she was not big enough to satisfy the hungerof a Hawk, who ought to find plenty of larger birds. “Do you happento see many large birds flying about?” the Hawk asked. “I should befoolish, indeed, to let you go for the sake of larger birds that arenot in sight. A morsel is better than nothing.”
<s>
      A crow who was nearly perishing with thirst spied a pitcher with alittle water in it. Reaching down, he found the water so low that,stooping and straining as he might, he was unable to reach it with hisbeak. Thereupon he tried to overturn and break the Pitcher. This he wasnot strong enough to do. At last, seeing some small pebbles, he broughta great many and dropped them one by one, and so raised the water tothe brim and quenched his thirst.
<s>
      Going to a fountain to quench his thirst, an ant tumbled in and wasready to drown. But a Dove happened to be perching on a neighboringtree and saw the Ant’s danger. Plucking a leaf, the Dove droppedit down into the water, so that the Ant mounting upon it was blownsafely to the shore. A Fowler, shortly after, spread his net to entrapthe unwary Dove. This the Ant perceived, and bit the Fowler’s heel.Distracted by the pain, the Fowler dropped his net with a quick start,and the Dove, aroused to a sense of danger, flew away.
One good turn deserves another.
<s>
      An ox, grazing in a swampy meadow, chanced to set his foot among anumber of young Frogs and trampled nearly all of them to death. Onethat escaped ran off to his mother with the dreadful news. “It was abeast—such a big four-footed beast—that did it.”
“Big?” asked the old Frog, and she puffed herself out, “as big as this?”
“A great deal bigger,” said the little one.
“Well, was it so big?” and she swelled herself out yet more.
“Indeed, Mother, but it was; and if you were to burst yourself youwould never reach half its size.” Vexed that her child should disparageher powers, the Mother Frog made one more trial and burst herselfindeed.
<s>
      A bat, falling to the ground, was caught by a weasel, whom he entreatednot to take his life. The Weasel protested that it was against naturefor a weasel to let a bird go. Whereupon the Bat insisted that he wasnot a bird, and to prove it, called attention to his mouselike head andears, which so confused the Weasel that he let the Bat go.
Some time afterward, on another flight, the Bat fell again to theground, and another Weasel caught him. On perceiving that the Weaselthought he was a mouse, the Bat contended that he had wings andtherefore was not a mouse, and was again allowed to go free.
<s>
      A fox who had fallen into a deep well was casting about to find how heshould get out again. At length a Goat came to the place, and seeingReynard, asked whether the water was good, and if there was plenty.
Hiding the real danger in his case, the Fox replied: “The best in theworld, and so much of it that it cannot be exhausted. Come down andsee.” Whereupon the Goat jumped down without more ado. Upon this thecrafty Fox jumped upon her horns and nimbly leaped out, remarking tothe deluded Goat, “If you had brains to match your beard, you wouldhave looked before you leaped.”
<s>
      A thrifty woman kept a hen that could be depended on to lay an eggevery morning. The watchful Woman thought within herself, “If I were todouble my Hen’s allowance of barley, she would lay twice a day.” So shetried her plan, and the Hen became so fat and sleek that she left offlaying at all.
Thrift sometimes overreaches, and figures are not always facts.
<s>
      A dog once made his bed in a manger and lay there snarling and growlingat whoever came by. The Oxen coming for their provender said: “What amiserable cur! neither to eat the grain himself nor to let any one elseeat it!”
<s>
      A mouse in an evil day made the acquaintance of a frog, and togetherthey set off on their travels. On pretense of affection and of keepinghis companion safe from harm, the Frog tied the Mouse’s forefoot tohis own hind leg, and thus they proceeded. It worked well enough tillthey came to some water, and the Frog, bidding the Mouse to havegood courage, plunged in and began to swim across. They were barelyhalfway when the Frog took a sudden plunge to the bottom, dragging theunfortunate Mouse after him. But the struggling of the Mouse made sogreat a commotion in the water that it attracted the attention of aHawk, who, pouncing down and bearing away the Mouse, carried the Frogalso.
Alliances that are ill-matched generally end in disaster; and the onewho compasses the destruction of his neighbor is often caught in hisown snare.
<s>
      A shepherd boy, tending his flock on the edge of a village, used toamuse himself at times by crying out, “Wolf! Wolf!” Twice or thrice histrick succeeded. The whole village ran to his assistance, only to belaughed at for their pains. At last, one day, the Wolf came indeed. TheBoy cried out as before, and this time in earnest. But the villagers,supposing him to be at his old sport, paid no heed to his cries, andthe Wolf devoured the sheep.
<s>
      After toiling all day and catching nothing, a fisherman pulled up alittle Fish. The Fish besought him to let him go, for he was small now,but by and by he would grow to be a big fish and so be worth catching.But the Fisherman answered, “No, no, I have you now, it would befoolish for me to let you go; I might not get you when you had grownbigger.”
A bird in the hand is worth two in the bush.
<s>
      A crow snatched a piece of cheese out of a window and flew with it upinto a tree, to eat it at leisure. A Fox passing by chanced to lookup and saw her. He coveted the prize and thus made his approachesto secure it. “O Crow,” said he, “how beautiful are thy wings andhow bright are thine eyes! how graceful thy neck! What a pity thatsuch a bird should want only a voice!” Yielding to the flattery, theCrow opened her mouth to surprise the Fox with her caw, when downdropped the cheese, which the Fox, snapping up, ate as he walked away,remarking that whatever he had said of her voice he did not say of herbrains.
<s>
      A partridge, having been taken in the net of a fowler, cried outpiteously, “Spare me, good Master Fowler, and I promise you, on myword, that I will decoy other partridges into your net.”
“No,” replied the man, “whatever I might have done, I am determinednow not to let you go; for no death is too bad for one who is ready tobetray his friends.”
<s>
      A pigeon, pressed by thirst and seeing a glass of water painted on asign, supposed it to be real. Dashing down at it with all her might,she struck against the hard board, and breaking her wing, she fellhelpless to the ground and was soon captured by one who passed by.
Great haste is not always good speed.
<s>
      There was a certain city in danger of being besieged, and a councilwas called accordingly, to consider the best means of fortifying it.A Bricklayer gave his judgment that no material was so good for thepurpose as brick. A Carpenter begged leave to suggest that timber wouldbe preferable, upon which a Currier started up and said, “Sirs, whenall has been said that can be said, there is nothing in the world likeleather.”
<s>
      In desperation over the hard times they had on account of their manyenemies, the Hares came together and, after rehearsing their situation,came to the sad conclusion that nothing was left to them but to drownthemselves as the most miserable and unfortunate of creatures. Theyrepaired to a pond to throw themselves off a rock into the water andthus make an end of their troubles. A shoal of frogs were sittingaround the edge of the pond, and at the approach of the Hares theywere startled, and with the greatest confusion jumped into the water.Whereupon the foremost of the Hares said to his fellows: “Nay, then,friends, our case may not be as desperate as we thought. Here are othercreatures more faint-hearted than are we.”
<s>
      An eagle and a fox had lived together as good neighbors, the formeron the summit of a high tree, the latter in a hole at the foot of it.One day when the Fox was abroad, the Eagle swooped down and snatchedthe Fox’s cub and carried it up to her nest, thinking that her highdwelling made her secure from the Fox’s revenge. The Fox returningupbraided the Eagle for such a breach of confidence and begged to haveher young one returned to her. Finding that her entreaties availednothing, the Fox snatched a brand from an altar fire which had beenlighted hard by and proceeded to involve the whole tree in flames. TheEagle, to protect her nest and her own young ones, restored the cubto its mother, which she would not do in answer to the most earnestentreaties.
<s>
   